  Managed by Mikel Arteta in his first full season, Arsenal finished eighth in their Premier League season, and following eliminations from the FA Cup, EFL Cup and UEFA Europa League, they failed to qualify for any European competition for the first time since the 1994–95 season.  
  Arsenal's 2019–20 campaign had seen defensive frailties and a lack of creativity lead to a disappointing eighth-place finish in the league, the club's lowest for a quarter of a century, but a successful FA Cup run and increasing promise under new coach and former cup-winning captain Mikel Arteta gave them increased optimism for the season ahead. The season had been defined by a three-month lull between March and June, caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; indeed, it was head coach Arteta's positive test that led to the season's pause, and when it returned, it was behind closed doors. The upcoming season was expected to continue in this manner. The league fixtures were released on 20 August, with Arsenal to kick off the new season away at newly promoted Fulham on 12 September.[3] Soon after, the club announced plans to allow fans back into the Emirates Stadium in time for their home encounter with Sheffield United on 3 October.[4]  
  The club's first major transfer of the season came on 14 August, with former Chelsea winger Willian signing a three-year contract. He had previously featured 339 times for the Blues over a spell of seven years, scoring 63 goals and winning two Premier League titles, a FA Cup, a League Cup and one UEFA Europa League.[5]  
  Following the departure of assistant coach and former interim manager Freddie Ljungberg,[6] Arsenal permanently signed January loanees Cédric Soares and Pablo Marí,[7] with the latter arriving for a fee of £7 million. Two days later, following the players' return from a two-week break, Arsenal played their only pre-season friendly, at Stadium MK against League One side Milton Keynes Dons. Mohamed Elneny, Emile Smith Rowe, Daniel Ballard, Tyreece John-Jules, James Olayinka and William Saliba were all making their first appearances back from loan spells elsewhere; Saliba and a host of other youth-teamers made their debuts for the club. Arsenal took an early lead after Elneny took advantage of a poor clearance from goalkeeper Lee Nicholls with a long-range effort. A flowing team move ending with Bukayo Saka setting up Eddie Nketiah for a finish made it 2–0, before Rob Holding's own goal halved the deficit. A header from youth-teamer Mark McGuinness made it 3–1 late on, before Reiss Nelson scored a penalty he himself had won as the match ended 4–1 to Arsenal.[8]  
  Arsenal kicked off their season by taking part in the FA Community Shield for the 24th time in their history, against last year's runaway Premier League champions Liverpool. Liverpool initially dominated the contest, but in the 12th minute, Arsenal captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang received the ball from youngster Bukayo Saka and then cut away from young Liverpool right-back Neco Williams, before bending a shot into the bottom left-hand corner. Liverpool grew back into the game and equalised late on through Takumi Minamino. The match ended 1–1 and went straight to penalties. Liverpool's Rhian Brewster was the only man to miss as Arsenal clinched their 16th Community Shield, with Aubameyang scoring the winning penalty.[9]  
  Arsenal's first major action of September was the £23 million signing of Lille centre-back Gabriel, with whom they had been linked for weeks. Gabriel signed after a promising 2019–20 season with the French club, his third total but his first at the Stade Pierre-Mauroy; he had spent the previous two seasons on loan at Avai and Dinamo Zagreb.[10] Less than a week later, the club announced they had re-signed influential central midfielder Dani Ceballos on a second successive loan spell from Real Madrid. Ceballos had made 37 appearances in 2019–20, scoring twice, contributing two assists and providing a strong influence from a deep-lying position.[11]  
  The Gunners began their Premier League campaign away at Craven Cottage against newly promoted Fulham. Both Brazilian signings, Willian and Gabriel, made their debuts in a comfortable 3–0 win. Alexandre Lacazette opened the scoring in the eighth minute with a left-footed shot after a spill by Fulham goalkeeper Marek Rodák. Willian hit the post with a free kick soon afterwards before delivering an excellent corner four minutes into the second half for Gabriel to nod in for a debut goal. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang wrapped up the three points with a fantastic strike into the corner to finish of a fine team move, with Willian getting another assist after a fine switched ball.[12]  
  On 16 September, captain Aubameyang signed a new three-year contract with the club, with reports suggesting his salary was now "in the region of £250,000" a week.[13]  
  Three days later, the club played their first home match of the season against West Ham United, whom they had last played in their final game before lockdown. The Gunners took a first-half lead after Alexandre Lacazette powerfully headed in Aubameyang's chipped cross — the Frenchman's 50th goal in all competitions for the club — before West Ham levelled through Michail Antonio on the stroke of half-time, after a devastating counter-attack. The Hammers dominated the second period, hitting the bar through Antonio and wasting numerous goalscoring opportunities before Arsenal clinched all three points with five minutes to go as Spaniard Dani Ceballos squared the ball for Eddie Nketiah to tap in the winner.[14]  
  Arsenal opened their League Cup campaign away at then-league leaders Leicester City at the King Power Stadium. Arsenal had not lost a third-round tie since a 1–2 reverse at home to Southampton in the 2014–15 edition of the competition at the Emirates Stadium. The Gunners comfortably won the tie 2–0; a Christian Fuchs own goal in the 57th minute was followed by a 90th-minute second from Eddie Nketiah to seal the win and a fourth-round tie away to Liverpool for the second consecutive year.[15]  
  Following the Leicester win, Arsenal faced back-to-back games against league champions Liverpool at Anfield in the space of four days. First, a Premier League encounter with the Reds ended in a 3–1 defeat, the Gunners’ first of the season; Alexandre Lacazette opened the scoring for the third successive league match after an error by Andrew Robertson, but Liverpool quickly responded with a Sadio Mané goal before Robertson atoned for his error by flicking the ball past Bernd Leno to give Liverpool the lead. Lacazette failed to convert a one-on-one with Alisson midway through the second half, while substitute and debutant Diogo Jota got on the scoresheet with two minutes remaining to seal a Liverpool victory.[16]  
  Arsenal quickly avenged their league defeat by narrowly progressing past Liverpool in the third round of the League Cup at Anfield. Two much-changed sides were deadlocked for much of the contest, with both goalkeepers, notably Arsenal's man-of-the-match Bernd Leno, producing a number of terrific stops. The game eventually finished goalless and went to penalties; everybody but Mohamed Elneny and Divock Origi scored, leading to sudden death; after Harry Wilson saw his spot kick saved by Leno, Joe Willock scuffed a shot through the legs of Liverpool goalkeeper Adrián to win the tie for Arsenal 5–4 on penalties. The Gunners progressed to the quarter-finals, where they would face seven-time winners and defending champions Manchester City.[17]  
  Arsenal headed into the international break on the back of yet another win at the Emirates, this time against pointless and goalless Sheffield United; two goals in the space of 190 seconds, first a header from Bukayo Saka and then an accurate finish from substitute Nicolas Pépé just after the hour mark effectively sealed the win, despite Sheffield United getting a late goal back after a fine long-range effort from David McGoldrick for a 2–1 scoreline.  
  On transfer deadline day, 5 October, Arsenal signed Atlético Madrid's Ghanaian central midfielder Thomas Partey, having paid his £45 million release clause. Two loan departures from the club also occurred: Lucas Torreira went the opposite direction to the Spanish club while Mattéo Guendouzi moved to German club Hertha Berlin. The club announced 55 redundancies related to COVID-19 financial stress, including their mascot, Gunnersaurus. A fundraiser had been set up for Jerry Quy, who had played Gunnersaurus for 27 years,[19] and Mesut Özil offered to pay his salary.[20]  
  The Gunners returned from the international break with a disappointing 1–0 defeat at Manchester City. They fell behind early to Raheem Sterling's well-taken finish, and failed to really threaten City, despite forcing Ederson into several smart saves and having a penalty waved away for an apparent high foot by Kyle Walker.[21]  
  On October 20, Arsenal submitted their 25 man squad for the Premier League which excluded Sokratis Papastathopoulos and Özil. This sparked a social media battle between Özil and the club, with the former claiming "loyalty is hard to come by."[22] It is to be believed that Özil will no play for the club again in a competitive match.[22]  
  The club then played their first-ever game against Austrian side Rapid Wien. Arsenal had so far failed to win a competitive tie in Austria after previous attempts against Sturm Graz in the second round of the 1970–71 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup and against Austria Wien in the first round of the 1991–92 European Cup. They struggled to break down the hosts, and fell behind early in the second half to Taxiarchis Fountas's strike, after Bernd Leno's error. However the Gunners, led by debutant and man-of-the-match Thomas Partey, turned the game around, equalising through David Luiz before winning through substitute Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's goal sixteen minutes from time.[23]  
  This victory, however, was quickly followed by a bitterly disappointing 1–0 home defeat to Leicester City in the sixth matchweek of the Premier League. The Gunners were controversially denied an opener with Alexandre Lacazette's fourth-minute header, as VAR (Video Assistant Referee) adjudged Granit Xhaka to have been offside in the build-up to the goal, despite not having clearly interfered with the play. Despite this setback, Arsenal went on to have a strong first half, but faded away in the second half, with only Hector Bellerin's fierce volley on 68 minutes seriously testing the Leicester back line. The Foxes snatched three points and the win late on, with Youri Tielemans's simple ball over the top finding substitute Cengiz Under, who volleyed across to find fellow sub Jamie Vardy, who grabbed the winner by heading in his eleventh goal against the Gunners in all competitions.[24]  
  A number of fringe players, including debuting goalkeeper Rúnar Alex Rúnarsson, played as the Gunners continued their perfect Europa League start by cruising past Irish side Dundalk 3–0. In their first-ever game against Irish opposition, they struggled to break down the visitors, until a misjudgement by 39-year old goalkeeper Gary Rogers just before half-time gifted Eddie Nketiah his tenth goal for Arsenal in all competitions. Joe Willock fired in a second minutes later, before Nicolas Pépé bent a terrific right-footed shot into the top corner for his tenth goal for Arsenal in all competitions as well. Late in the second half, Folarin Balogun made his debut as a substitute as the match ended in a comfortable victory.[25]  
  On 1 November, Arsenal headed away to Old Trafford to take on traditional rivals Manchester United. In the first half, neither team was able to score, although after a couple half-chances Willian and Bukayo Saka came the closest to scoring; the former hit the crossbar in the 39th minute, and the latter headed unchallenged over the bar just before halftime. In the 68th minute, Paul Pogba clipped the ankle of Héctor Bellerín as the Spaniard tried to collect a pass from Willian just inside the box, and referee Mike Dean awarded the penalty.[26] Captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang successfully converted the penalty for his second Premier League goal of the season and his first since the season opener at Fulham by slotting the ball into the bottom right corner of the goal as David de Gea dived in the other direction.[27] The Gunners were able to successfully defend their narrow lead and earn their first away win against another "Big Six" team in almost five years; the last such victory came at the Etihad Stadium against Manchester City on 18 January 2015, which Arsenal won 2–0. The victory was also Arsenal's first away win against Manchester United since 17 September 2006, which was also a 1–0 affair.[28]  
  The Gunners followed up the Old Trafford match with a first ever competitive meeting with Molde FK at the Emirates Stadium, securing a third consecutive win in all competitions via a 4–1 scoreline. They were, however, made to work for it, as they fell behind to Martin Ellingsen's well-taken strike halfway through the first half. Two Molde own goals from Kristoffer Haugen before half time and substitute Sheriff Sinyan just after the hour mark put Arsenal into the lead, before two well-taken late goals from Nicolas Pépé and Joe Willock padded the Gunners' lead.[29]  
  The month ended with the FA Cup third-round draw, in which the holders Arsenal would start their title defence at home to Newcastle United.[30]  
  The run of good form was ended when the Gunners lost at home to Aston Villa 3–0, marking the fourth time in the past five seasons that Arsenal had been beaten by three or more goals at the Emirates Stadium. Villa took the lead when a well-worked move involving Jack Grealish, Ross Barkley and Trezeguet ended with the lattermost's cross being turned in for an own goal by Bukayo Saka. Another great move ended with Barkley volleying the ball across the goal to Ollie Watkins, who had scored a hat-trick in the Villans' 7–2 win over defending champions Liverpool the previous month, to head in. A swift counterattack three minutes later ended in Watkins’ second and Villa's third to seal the result of the game.[31]  
  Mohamed Elneny and Sead Kolašinac both tested positive for COVID-19 on international duty for Egypt and Bosnia and Herzegovina respectively, and a thigh injury to Thomas Partey against Villa left the Gunners weakened upon their trip to Elland Road to face Leeds United. The first half was dull and goalless, but early in the second half, a headbutt on Ezgjan Alioski earned Nicolas Pépé a red card. From there, Leeds dominated, forcing Bernd Leno into several saves despite wasting numerous chances, including hitting the woodwork three times. However, Arsenal managed to hold on for a 0–0 draw.[32]  
  The Gunners then made the trip to Norway to take on Molde again in the Europa League group stage. Once more, they started uncertainly, with Sheriff Sinyan, scorer of the second own goal in the first match between the two sides, missing an open goal in an attempt to redeem himself. At half time, it was 0–0, but once again the Gunners came back with three second half goals. After Nicolas Pépé hit the crossbar with a fine curling effort on 48 minutes, the Ivorian atoned for his red card at Elland Road by firing in Joe Willock's overhit cross, before an Eddie Nketiah goal was ruled out for offside. A fine, flowing team move ended with Reiss Nelson tapping in fellow academy graduate Willock's low cross for the second goal five minutes later. Late in the second half, Folarin Balogun, on just his second senior appearance, scored within 30 seconds of coming as a substitute. He received the ball from fellow substitute and academy graduate Emile Smith Rowe and swivelled before beating goalkeeper Andreas Linde from close range to wrap up a comfortable 3–0 win and book their places in the knockout stages with two games to go.[33]  
  The side then returned to Premier League action in a crucial home encounter with Wolverhampton Wanderers. As David Luiz and Wolves striker Raúl Jiménez battled for a cross from Willian in the fifth minute, a clash of heads between the two resulted in a stoppage of play. Jiménez suffered a serious head injury that forced him to be stretchered off, while Luiz received on-field treatment and had to be bandaged for a head wound; the latter was eventually taken off at half time out of caution. Wolves nonetheless took the lead through Pedro Neto on 27 minutes after Leander Dendoncker's header rebounded off the crossbar. However, just three minutes later, a short, well-worked corner saw Willian find the head of fellow Brazilian Gabriel to power home. It was the Gunners' first goal in open play in the Premier League since 4 October against Sheffield United, but despite having several other great chances, they fell to a third home league defeat in a row after Daniel Podence smartly finished before the break.[34]  
  The Christmas period began with the return of fans to the Emirates Stadium for the first time in nine months as Arsenal took on Rapid Wien in the fifth Europa League group stage game. A stunning long-range goal from Alexandre Lacazette gave the Gunners an early lead, which they added to with Pablo Marí's first goal for the club in just his fourth appearance, after a long-term ankle injury sustained in June. A fine passing move just before half-time culminated in Eddie Nketiah being denied from close-range by goalkeeper Richard Strebinger before heading in the rebound. Just after half-time, striker Koya Kitagawa pulled one back for the visitors before substitute Emile Smith Rowe capped off a dominant display with his first goal of the season on just his second appearance (both as a substitute) to cap off a 4–1 victory for Arsenal.[35]  
  Once again, Arsenal failed to take their terrific European form into their domestic games. This time, Mikel Arteta's side fell to another disappointing defeat, their fifth in seven league games, in the North London derby against Tottenham Hotspur. Tottenham capitalized on individual defensive errors with first-half goals from Son Heung-min and Harry Kane on counterattacks to condemn the Gunners to a 2–0 defeat. Arsenal failed to be clinical having numerous half-chances as the side registered just two shots on target to Spurs' three. Spurs went top of the league after the win, while Arsenal slumped to 15th.[36]  
  Arsenal recovered by completing a perfect European group stage for the first time in the club's history when they beat Dundalk 4–2 in the Aviva Stadium in Dublin as their first-ever club game in the Republic of Ireland ended in a success. Eddie Nketiah scored his fifth goal of the season, Mohamed Elneny got his first goal in nearly three years, Joe Willock scored his third of the campaign, and Folarin Balogun contributed with a goal and an assist after coming on as a substitute.[37]  
  Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang ended his five-game goal drought with a second-half equaliser in a 1–1 home draw with Southampton, cancelling out former Arsenal player Theo Walcott's goal on his Emirates Stadium homecoming. There were more disciplinary problems as Gabriel was sent off for two yellow cards in a span of four minutes.[39]  
  Aubameyang picked up a calf injury which kept him out of the starting lineup of the 2–1 Premier League defeat at Goodison Park against Everton. A Rob Holding own goal and a Yerry Mina header on either side of Nicolas Pépé's converted penalty before half-time gave the Toffees the win, with David Luiz coming closest for Arsenal in the second half when he hit the post with a well-struck half-volley.[40]  
  This was followed by a bitterly disappointing performance against Manchester City at the Emirates Stadium in the League Cup quarter-finals. Gabriel Jesus scored for City inside two minutes and although Alexandre Lacazette equalised against the run of play, second-half goals from Riyad Mahrez, Phil Foden and Aymeric Laporte gave City a comfortable 4–1 win, as Arsenal's League Cup run came to an end in the quarter-finals for the second time in three years.[41]  
  However, this was followed by a spectacular win over Chelsea at home in the Premier League, Arsenal's first in nearly two months. Aubameyang was still struggling with a calf injury as Mikel Arteta reshuffled his side, giving starts to youngsters Gabriel Martinelli and Emile Smith Rowe, with Pablo Marí making his first league appearance and start of the season and Granit Xhaka returning from his suspension. In the thirty-third minute, the Swiss midfielder found Kieran Tierney with a floated pass to the left side of the field. Tierney cut inside past Chelsea right back Reece James, who clipped the Scotsman's ankles inside the box. Referee Michael Oliver immediately awarded the penalty, which Alexandre Lacazette converted past Édouard Mendy. Before halftime, Xhaka scored a spectacular free kick to increase Arsenal's lead. In the second half, Arsenal continued to add to their lead. After receiving a pass from Smith Rowe, Bukayo Saka seemed to attempt a cross to the far post, but his errant pass managed to chip Mendy and find the top corner. Arsenal nearly managed to add a fourth when a Saka corner in the eighty-fourth minute fell to Mohamed Elneny on the edge of the box, but the Egyptian's half-volley rattled off the crossbar. Less than two minutes later, a cross from Callum Hudson-Odoi was chested in by Tammy Abraham, which, after VAR ruled it to be correctly onside, made the score 3–1. In stoppage time, Pablo Marí conceded a late penalty when he clipped Mason Mount in the box, giving Chelsea the opportunity to halve the deficit. However, Jorginho, a second-half substitute, had his spot kick saved by Bernd Leno to cap off a 3–1 victory for the Gunners.[42][43]  
  A hard-fought 1–0 win away to Brighton at the Amex Stadium saw Arsenal rise to thirteenth after spending the previous five matchweeks at fifteenth place. After a run by Bukayo Saka down the left in the sixty-sixth minute, the youngster found Alexandre Lacazette, who scored just 29 seconds after coming on in the 66th minute. Despite Saka limping off later with an injury, the three points ensured Arsenal ended 2020 on a high.[44]  
  Arsenal hoped to win their third straight league game in a row and started off 2021 away to West Brom at The Hawthorns, who had conceded thirteen goals in their previous three league games. A snowstorm before and during the game made for less-than-ideal conditions, but Arsenal were on the front foot from the start, and a cross from Bukayo Saka to the back post proved to be just too far for captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in the fifteenth minute. Arsenal opened the scoring in the twenty-third minute when Kieran Tierney ran in from the left past Darnell Furlong and curled in a shot past Sam Johnstone. Five minutes later, Alexandre Lacazette passed out to Emile Smith Rowe on the right side of the box, who found the onrushing Saka, who in turn tapped in Arsenal's second goal of the game. In the closing minutes of the first half, Héctor Bellerín received a yellow card for a late tackle on Conor Gallagher; this was the Spaniard's sixth yellow card of the season and a league-leading mark at the time. Two minutes into the second half, West Brom came the closest they were to scoring all game when winger Matheus Pereira's shot across goal hit the far post and Callum Robinson put in the rebound from just outside of the box for West Brom, but the goal was ruled out due to Pereira being offside. An early second-half substitution saw Ainsley Maitland-Niles replace Bellerín at right back, so as to avoid the danger of the Spaniard receiving a second yellow and a subsequent red card and suspension. In the sixtieth minute, Arsenal continued to pad their lead. A cross from Saka from the right was nearly put in by West Brom defender Semi Ajayi, who hit the post. The rebound fell to Smith Rowe, whose shot was parried away by Johnstone but fell to Lacazette, who slotted in the third Gunners goal of the game. The French striker added a fourth goal and his second of the game minutes later after connecting with a Tierney cross a few yards in front of the goal. The score remained the same and the game finished 4–0. Along with the Gunners' third win in a row, this was the second consecutive clean sheet for Bernd Leno and the first time all season that Leno has had consecutive clean sheets in the Premier League. With the win, Arsenal moved up to eleventh and their goal difference became positive for the first time since early November.[45][46][47]  
  Arsenal began their FA Cup defense in the third round against fellow Premier League side Newcastle United at home on 9 January. At halftime, the score was 0–0, as neither side was able to break the deadlock, though Arsenal had more of the chances. In the second half, Joe Willock's header in the sixty-fifth minute and Newcastle striker Andy Carroll's strike in second half stoppage time, both of which forced close-range saves out of Martin Dúbravka and Bernd Leno, respectively, represented each team's best opportunity to score. In the final moments of the second half, referee Chris Kavanagh sent off Emile Smith Rowe with a straight red card for a foul on Sean Longstaff, but after VAR review, the red card was downgraded to a yellow. In the first half of extra time, despite Arsenal continuing to dominate the chances, they were unable to score; Granit Xhaka's volley from outside the box was tipped over the crossbar by Dúbravka, while a potential penalty was dismissed by Kavanagh and VAR when Matt Ritchie tripped Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang as the latter attempted to dribble past the former into the box. Smith Rowe was able to redeem himself early in the second half of extra time as he chested down a pass from Alexandre Lacazette before firing a shot from a tight angle across the goal and off the near post to put Arsenal ahead. A few minutes later, Aubameyang sealed the win for the Gunners when he tapped in a low cross from Kieran Tierney. With the 2–0 win, Arsenal advanced to the fourth round.[48][49]  
  The Gunners returned to Premier League action on 14 January at home against Crystal Palace, hoping to make it five wins in a row in all competitions. However, neither team was able to find the back of the net, and the game finished 0–0. The Eagles landed nine shots in the first half, which was the most that Arsenal had given up the first half in a home Premier League game all season. All game, the visitors had more of the higher quality chances. James Tomkins' header from an Eberechi Eze free kick in the thirty-ninth minute hit the crossbar, while Christian Benteke's header from a Tyrick Mitchell cross minutes later was parried wide by Bernd Leno. On the other hand, Arsenal struggled to seriously trouble Crystal Palace goalkeeper Vicente Guaita, and arguably their best performer was Granit Xhaka, who put in key tackles to stop Wilfried Zaha on several counterattacks. One silver lining that Arsenal could take away from the goalless draw was that they kept a fourth consecutive clean sheet and their third straight in league competition.[50][51]  
  For the second time in nine days, Arsenal welcomed Newcastle United to the Emirates Stadium, this time in league competition. Like in the previous encounter, neither team was able to score in the first half, despite a near miss in the fifteenth minute when Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang hit the post from a tight angle. However, this time, Arsenal managed to secure the victory in regulation time. In the fiftieth minute, Thomas Partey, who made his first Premier League start since early December, hit a long pass out to Aubameyang out on the left, who in turn took on and ran past Newcastle right-back Emil Krafth before hitting a left-footed strike past Karl Darlow. Ten minutes later, another attack down the left-hand side of the field resulted in a second goal when Bukayo Saka struck home Emile Smith Rowe's low cross. Arsenal continued to utilize their good wing play, this time from the right side of the field. Saka found the overlapping right-back Cédric, who ran along the goal line before flashing a pass across goal that found Aubameyang for the latter's second goal of the game. The 3–0 win saw Arsenal extend their unbeaten streak in league competition.[52][53]  
  Southampton's win over Shrewsbury Town in the third round of the FA Cup meant that Arsenal would face the Saints in consecutive away games at St Mary's Stadium within a four-day span. The first of these meetings was a fourth round FA Cup match on 23 January. An own goal from Gabriel, who deflected a shot by Southampton right-back Kyle Walker-Peters past Bernd Leno, proved to be the difference, handing the Saints a 1–0 win and ending the Gunners' six-match unbeaten streak in all competitions. Che Adams and James Ward-Prowse also came close to scoring for Southampton, while a potential penalty call from Shane Long was dismissed by referee Peter Bankes. On the other hand, Eddie Nketiah's deflected shot in the second half was Arsenal's best chance of scoring the whole game, and Saints goalkeeper Fraser Forster was seldom called into action. With the loss, Arsenal, the cup holders, were knocked out of the competition, while Southampton advanced to the fifth round to face Wolverhampton Wanderers. Notably, this was the first time in five attempts that Southampton defeated Arsenal in the FA Cup. For manager Mikel Arteta, this was his first loss in fifteen FA Cup games as either a player or a manager since he played in a fifth round loss to Blackburn Rovers in the 2012–13 FA Cup.[54][55][56]  
  In the second of these meetings, this time a Premier League match on 26 January, both teams got on the board early. In the third minute, a corner from James Ward-Prowse found Stuart Armstrong on the edge of the box, and the Scotsman powered a half-volley past Bernd Leno. However, Arsenal was able to capitalize on the absences of both of the Saints' usual starting full-backs, those being left-back Ryan Bertrand (serving a one-match ban due to yellow card accumulation) and right-back Kyle Walker-Peters (out due to a quadriceps injury). A few minutes after the Saints' opening goal, Granit Xhaka cut a pass between Saints defenders Yan Valery and Jan Bednarek to find Nicolas Pépé, who held off Valery and fired past Alex McCarthy to the far post to level the score. In the thirty-ninth minute, Alexandre Lacazette played a pass to Bukayo Saka, who managed to get past Jake Vokins. McCarthy rushed outside of his penalty box to confront Saka before pulling back to avoid committing a foul, but the Southampton goalkeeper's mistake allowed Saka to easily get around him and tap in a second goal for the Gunners. In the second half, Arsenal sought to extend their lead and close out the game. A high floating pass from Cédric found Saka across the field in the seventy-second minute, and this time, Saka turned provider for Lacazette. A first time low cross from Saka found the French striker, who ran between and past Southampton center-backs Bednarek and Jack Stephens to tap in Arsenal's third goal. Despite a threatening free kick from Ward-Prowse late in the game that forced Leno to parry it away, Arsenal hung on for the 3–1 win, which saw Arsenal return to the top ten for the first time all season since Matchday 7 at the beginning of November.[57][58][59]  
  Arsenal finished off the month by welcoming rivals Manchester United to the Emirates Stadium on 30 January. Both teams were evenly matched and had several opportunities each to score. In the twentieth minute, a corner from Luke Shaw, headed away by Rob Holding, fell to Fred just outside the box to scoop it towards the top corner, forcing a fingertip save from Bernd Leno. Shortly before the hour mark, a sequence of passes by Manchester United in and around the box ended up with Shaw laying off a pass to Edinson Cavani, but under heavy pressure from Cédric, the Uruguayan striker flashed the shot wide from six yards out. In the sixty-fifth minute, Alexandre Lacazette hit the crossbar with a free kick from the edge of the box. Less than a minute later, with Arsenal still on the attack, Cédric hit a looping cross into the box that met the head of Victor Lindelöf and fell to an unmarked Emile Smith Rowe, whose low shot towards the bottom corner forced de Gea to get down quickly and parry it away. A late substitution saw Norwegian attacking midfielder Martin Ødegaard, who had just signed on loan from Real Madrid until the end of the season, make his debut for the Gunners, coming on in place of Smith Rowe. In the eighty-ninth minute, Manchester United had the chance to steal the win, but a lapse in communication saw Cavani and Anthony Martial in the same location trying to connect with a cross from Aaron Wan-Bissaka. It was the former who got there first, but his scissor-kick only managed to divert the ball just wide of the post. The 0–0 draw meant that both teams shared the points, and Arsenal maintained their seven-game unbeaten streak in the league and a top ten placing.[60][61]  
  On 2 February, Arsenal traveled to Molineux to take on Wolverhampton Wanderers, and the Gunners dominated the game for most of the first half. Bukayo Saka had two early shots on target, including one that hit the post in the first minute, before seemingly scoring in the ninth minute. A pull-back pass from Alexandre Lacazette was met with a half-volley from the edge of the box by Saka, but VAR quickly disallowed the goal, having found Lacazette offside on a knock-on header from Rob Holding. Arsenal continued to lay on the pressure and had another close miss when Emile Smith Rowe laid off a pass for the onrushing Nicolas Pépé, who could only managed to hit the woodwork. Minutes later, after wriggling past Nélson Semedo and nutmegging Rúben Neves, the Ivorian winger curled the ball to the far post and in to finally put Arsenal on the board. In first-half stoppage time, Daniel Podence played a pass between Arsenal defenders Holding and David Luiz to the advancing Willian José. As the Wolves striker continued his run into the box, his heel struck the knee of David Luiz and brought down both Brazilian players. Despite the minimal contact, characterized as "accidental" by NBCSN commentators Peter Drury and Phil Neville, referee Craig Pawson immediately brandished a red card to David Luiz, a call with which VAR referee Jon Moss agreed. With Arsenal down to ten players, Rúben Neves curled the penalty into the top corner to bring Wolves level and turn the tide of the game. A few minutes into the second half, a strike by João Moutinho from 25 yards out hit the post and flew in past a diving Bernd Leno to put Wolves into the lead. Arsenal's misfortunes were compounded on in the seventh-second minute with their second red card of the game, this time for Leno. Semedo played a long ball for the speedy Adama Traoré to chase, but the slightly overhit pass was met first by Leno just outside of the box. In a desperate attempt to parry the ball away from Traoré, the German misjudged the bounce of the ball and scooped it out of bounds with his hand, an illegal action for goalkeepers outside of their own penalty area. Pawson once again brought out a red card for the infraction, reducing Arsenal to just nine players for the remainder of the match, while backup goalkeeper Rúnar Alex Rúnarsson came on in goal. Arsenal were unable score again, and the 2–1 loss saw their winning streak came to an end, while Wolves completed a league double over Arsenal and snapped an eight-game winless streak.[62][63][64]  
  Arsenal continued their Premier League campaign on 6 February with another away game at Villa Park against Aston Villa and former Arsenal goalkeeper Emiliano Martínez, who had signed with the Villans in the summer transfer window. The Gunners hoped to overturn the 3–0 loss from earlier in the season, but an early goal from the home side within 75 seconds turned out to be the only goal all game. John McGinn tried to play a through pass to Ollie Watkins, but it was cut out by Gabriel, who touched it to Cédric. The Portuguese full-back immediately tried to play it back to Gabriel, but the weight of the pass was not enough, and Bertrand Traoré rushed in to intercept it. Traoré then ran past Gabriel before crossing it to Watkins, who fired through the legs of Rob Holding. The deflection off Holding's legs was enough to take it past the reach of Mathew Ryan, who was deputizing in goal for the red-card-suspended Bernd Leno. The best opportunity from Arsenal to tie it up came from a Granit Xhaka free kick in the twenty-ninth minute that was tipped over by Martínez. The 1–0 loss saw Aston Villa complete their first league double over Arsenal in 38 years, who remained winless against the Villans in their last three Premier League meetings dating back to last season, the first of which also happened to be a 1–0 loss at Villa Park.[65][66]  
  Eleventh place Arsenal took on tenth place Leeds United on 14 February in their first home Premier League match of the month. Captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang opened the scoring in the thirteenth minute after receiving a pass from Granit Xhaka and dribbling past Luke Ayling with a few stepovers before cutting inside and firing to the near post past Illan Meslier. In the thirty-ninth minute, Meslier tried to play out from the ball, but with Bukayo Saka applying heavy pressure, the Leeds goalkeeper hesitated to pass. A poor touch from Meslier as he tried to keep the ball away from Saka saw the latter get to the ball first, and Meslier subsequently clipped the back of Saka's ankles to give away a penalty. Aubameyang sent Meslier the wrong way and converted the penalty for his second goal of the game. As halftime approached, the Gunners continued to apply offensive pressure. A sequence of passes in and around the box was finished off when a pass from Dani Ceballos nutmegged Mateusz Klich and found Héctor Bellerín, whose shot managed to sneak under Meslier at the near post. Despite the 3–0 lead at halftime, Arsenal weren't content on just preserving their lead. Less than two minutes into the second half, Emile Smith Rowe lofted a cross to the back post, which Aubameyang headed in for his third goal of the game and his first hat-trick in the Premier League.[67] Though Arsenal hoped to keep the clean sheet, Leeds hit back with two goals. First, a Raphinha corner in the fifty-eighth minute found Pascal Struijk, who got to the ball first ahead of David Luiz and Saka and headed it past Bernd Leno. Eleven minutes later, Raphinha played a through ball to Tyler Roberts, who ran to the touch line before pulling it back to Hélder Costa for a first-time finish. Leeds had a penalty shout later on, as Patrick Bamford's run into the box was stopped when he was squeezed between Cédric and Gabriel and fell over, but neither referee Stuart Attwell nor video assistant referee Andre Marriner decided to award it. Arsenal hoped to stymie Leeds' late rally and put the game out of reach, but Aubameyang and Saka managed to only hit the woodwork with each of their shots. The 4–2 victory saw the two teams swap places in the standings, and Arsenal moved back into the top ten.[68][69] With the hat-trick, Aubameyang also surpassed the milestone of at least 200 goals in Europe's top five leagues, becoming only the ninth player ever to reach that mark.[70]  
  The Europa League knockout phase began with matches in the round of 32 on 18 February, and Arsenal took on Benfica. Because of COVID-19 travel restrictions, the first leg match took place at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome instead of at Benfica's home ground, the Estádio da Luz, in Lisbon.[71] Arsenal had the first big chance of the game in the eighteenth minute: Dani Ceballos played a through pass to fellow Spaniard Héctor Bellerín, who ran past Benfica left-back Álex Grimaldo. Bellerín played in a low cross and found Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, hot off a hat-trick, but the forward missed just wide with his left foot from eight yards as he tried to slot it in past Helton Leite. Neither team managed to get another major chance in the first half, and the score remained 0–0 at halftime. In the fifty-third minute, a Benfica corner found its way to Diogo Gonçalves on the edge of the box, but his cross was blocked by Emile Smith Rowe, whose arm made contact with the ball. After taking a moment to think about it, referee Cüneyt Çakır branded a yellow card to Smith Rowe and awarded Benfica the penalty, which Pizzi converted just past the reach of Bernd Leno. However, the Portuguese side's lead did not last long. After dragging a shot wide minutes ago, Bukayo Saka tapped in a Cédric cross from close range. Neither team managed to break the 1–1 deadlock; Aubameyang came close to putting Arsenal on top in the sixty-third minute but he dragged his shot wide.[72][73]  
  On 21 February, Arsenal returned to Premier League action to face league leaders Manchester City at Emirates Stadium. Like in the previous fixture in mid-October, the Gunners lost 1–0, with the only goal coming from Raheem Sterling again. Less than 80 seconds into the game, Riyad Mahrez hit a looping cross that found Sterling in the box, who headed the ball in from six yards out and gave Bernd Leno little chance to make a save. City dominated the rest of the game and had a greater percentage of scoring chances, including an eightieth-minute João Cancelo trivela shot from close range that curled just wide of the post. Arsenal, on the other hand, only managed one shot on target, that being a long range effort from Kieran Tierney at the half-hour mark.[74][75]  
  A week after the first leg of the Europa League round of 32 matches, Arsenal took on Benfica in the second leg on 25 February. The match was originally scheduled to be held at Arsenal's home ground, the Emirates Stadium, but once again, due to COVID-19 travel restrictions, the match had to take place at a neutral venue, this time at the Karaiskakis Stadium in Piraeus, Greece.[76] Notably, this was the home stadium of Olympiacos, who had knocked the Gunners out of last season's Europa League competition in the round of 32 on away goals. Arsenal kicked off the scoring in the twenty-first minute with the first real scoring chance from either team. Bukayo Saka cut a pass through the Benfica defense for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who was closely marked and kept just onside by Lucas Veríssimo, to run onto in the box. As goalkeeper Helton Leite ran out and went to ground, Aubameyang chipped the ball over him to the far post and in to give Arsenal the early lead. However, as the game neared halftime, Benfica drew even with a 23-yard free kick from Diogo Gonçalves that found the top corner past a diving Bernd Leno. Shortly after the hour mark, the Eagles pulled ahead, swinging the aggregate score in their favor. A long goal kick from Helton Leite was poorly dealt with by Dani Ceballos, who headed it backwards. The ball fell to Rafa Silva, leaving him open for a one-on-one with Leno, as Ceballos had been the last man in defense. Leno rushed out of his box to try and confront Silva, but the Benfica midfielder tapped it past Leno and into the open goal. However, it did not take long for Arsenal to respond. In the sixty-seventh minute, Kieran Tierney played a pass down the left flank for Willian, who had just been substituted in place of Ceballos five minutes prior. Willian carried the ball towards the touch line before cutting it back to Tierney, who ran past Everton before striking the ball to the far bottom corner. Though Tierney's goal tied up the match and the aggregate score, Benfica still had the advantage with two away goals to Arsenal's one. In the seventy-seventh minute, as Helton Leite hesitated with the ball at his feet, Aubameyang applied pressure and rushed in, just managing to block the goalkeeper from getting off a long kick. The deflection fell to Saka, who slashed it wide and was unable to capitalize on the mistake. With their Europe League campaign on the line, Arsenal left it late to get the go-ahead goal and avoid the same fate in consecutive years. On-loan attacking midfielder Martin Ødegaard found Saka on the right flank in the eighty-seventh minute. With a few stepovers, Saka managed to get himself a yard of space past substitute left-back Nuno Tavares and cross the ball to the far post. Aubameyang beat Lucas Veríssimo to the ball and headed it in for his second goal of the game. Crucially, this gave Arsenal a 3–2 lead in the game and tipped the aggregate score (4–3) back in Arsenal's favor. After a brief VAR check for offsides, the goal was confirmed, and Arsenal hung on for the win, advancing them to the round of 16.[77][78]  
  To finish off the month, Arsenal headed to the King Power Stadium to take on Leicester City. For the game, manager Mikel Arteta chose to rest several key players that had played in the Benfica match just three days prior, including Bukayo Saka and captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Leicester got off to a fast start. In the sixth minute, Youri Tielemans intercepted a pass from Granit Xhaka meant for Willian before running free down the right flank and into the box, where he struck a shot that went in at the far post. The Foxes nearly doubled their lead from the ensuing kickoff. Bernd Leno received a back pass from David Luiz, but with Jamie Vardy charging forward and applying pressure, Leno attempted to return the pass to the defender. Vardy managed to intercept the pass, but his first touch took the ball back into Leno's hands. At the other end of the field, Nicolas Pépé made a run into the box in the twelfth minute but was tripped up after both Tielemans and Wilfred Ndidi seemed to clip his ankles. Referee Paul Tierney initially awarded the penalty, despite Tielemans' protests, but video assistant referee David Coote adjudged the foul to have occurred just outside the box, so a free kick was awarded instead. In the thirty-eighth minute, Pépé tried to run past Thomas down the right flank but was brought down outside the box, which resulted in a yellow card for Thomas and another free kick for Arsenal. Willian took the free kick and found David Luiz, who ran free of his marker Timothy Castagne and headed the ball to the far post past Kasper Schmeichel. As halftime approached, Pépé continued to threaten, this time taking a shot from just outside the box. Ndidi raised his arm to block the shot on the edge of the box, but referee Tierney didn't initially award the penalty. However, after the intervention of VAR and Tierney having a second look on the VAR monitor, Arsenal were given the penalty and the chance to take the lead. As Schmeichel dived to the right, Lacazette converted the penalty into the bottom left corner. After a scrummage for possession in the middle of the field early in the second half, Xhaka found Pépé on the right flank, who pushed towards the goal. Pépé centered it to Martin Ødegaard, who found Willian near the touch line. As Schmeichel charged forward to close the angle, Willian stabbed the ball over the goalkeeper and through Tielemans' legs for Pépé to tap in. Leicester didn't look to seriously threaten or challenge Leno in the rest of the second half, and Arsenal closed out the game for a 3–1 win.[79][80]  
  Arsenal headed to Turf Moor on 6 March to take on Burnley, and it was the Gunners who got on the board early. Just over five minutes into the game, Thomas Partey passed through the middle to Willian, who ran forward unchallenged from the center circle and passed to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on the left flank. Aubameyang squared up against Matthew Lowton and executed a few stepovers to move free of the Burnley right-back before cutting inside and firing a low shot towards the near bottom corner. Though Nick Pope managed to get a hand on the ball, the power of the shot carried it the ball past Pope into the goal. Bukayo Saka had the chance to double Arsenal's lead on twenty-two minutes; a one-two pass from Aubameyang bounced off of Ben Mee, James Tarkowski, and Charlie Taylor before falling to Saka, who tried to nudge the ball past Pope but the shot rolled just wide of the near post. Before halftime, Burnley would equalize, capitalizing on an Arsenal defensive error in the thirty-ninth minute. The Gunners were trying to play out from the back, and Pablo Marí passed back to Bernd Leno, who found a retreating Granit Xhaka in the middle of the field. Xhaka tried to quickly pass it to David Luiz out on the right flank, but the poor pass bounced off the chest of Chris Wood and into the goal. In the second half, Burnley kept Leno busy on a few occasions, including two shots from Matěj Vydra and a long looping shot from Erik Pieters that had to be tipped over the bar. Controversy arose in the seventy-first minute with the first of two penalty shouts for handball. Nicolas Pépé made his way into the box and squared off against Pieters. When Pépé tried to get the ball up and past Pieters, the ball hit Pieters' outstretched hand, but neither referee Andre Marriner nor video assistant referee Kevin Friend bothered to have a second thought about the infraction. Arsenal missed several good chances to score, including in the eighty-first minute, when Pépé swung and missed at a first-time Kieran Tierney cross. A few minutes later, Pépé managed to connect with a looping cross from Saka, but his shot hit Pieters and clanged off the crossbar. Pieters had stuck out his arm in an attempt to block the shot, and Marriner showed him a red card for the infraction. However, after VAR review found the ball to have contacted Pieters' shoulder, Marriner rescinded the red card. In stoppage time, Arsenal desperately tried to find a late winner with a barrage of shots from Aubameyang, Saka, Pablo Marí, Alexandre Lacazette, and Dani Ceballos, the last of which clattered off the post for the final shot of the game, ending 1–1.[81][82]  
  On 11 March, Arsenal faced Olympiacos in the first leg of their Europa League round of 16 match. For the second straight Europa League match, the game took place at the Karaiskakis Stadium, Olympiacos' home ground. Arsenal came closing to scoring early, as a Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang header from a Héctor Bellerín cross in the sixth minute deflected off of former Arsenal defender Sokratis' shoulder and was punched onto the crossbar by José Sá before the goalkeeper scrambled to his feet to collect the ball safely. Arsenal dominated the first half, and their pressure finally paid off in the 34th minute. As Olympiacos tried to play out of the back, several Arsenal players pushed forward in the high press, eventually causing a pass to be intercepted by Thomas Partey. Partey immediately passed it to Martin Ødegaard, who had several yards of space to run into before he fired a shot from outside the box. Though the shot was quite central and Sá managed to get a hand to it, the power of the shot carried it over Sá and in for Ødegaard's first Arsenal goal. Several minutes later, Arsenal nearly made the same mistake; as David Luiz tried to pass out of the back, the pressing Georgios Masouras blocked the ball before curling a shot high and wide of the far post. However, Olympiacos would eventually exploit the Gunners' tactic and force a mistake. In the fifty-eighth minute, Gabriel passed back to Bernd Leno, who played it forward to Dani Ceballos, who had just been substituted on for Partey. Youssef El-Arabi immediately closed down and dispossessed the Spaniard before breaking forward and firing past the outstretched hand of the retreating Leno. The Greek side nearly made it two in quick succession when Lazar Ranđelović fed the ball to El-Arabi near the penalty spot, but the shot was deflected wide by a diving Bellerín. In the seventy-ninth minute, Ødegaard played the corner short to Willian, who sent a high looping cross into the box. Gabriel leapt high above his opposite number Yann M'Vila and headed the ball back in the same direction to the top corner over José Sá. A few minutes later, the Gunners would secure the win, as substitute Mohamed Elneny was allowed to run free and unchallenged through the middle of the field before he shot from around 25 yards out. The power and technique of the shot curled it away from Sá, who could only tip it onto the post and in. With the 3–1 victory and three away goals, Arsenal put themselves into a good position heading into the second leg.[83][84]  
  Arsenal faced fierce rivals Tottenham Hotspur at the Emirates Stadium on 14 March in the second North London Derby of the season. Despite the importance of the match, manager Mikel Arteta dropped captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang from the starting line-up to the bench for disciplinary issues.[85] Initially, the omission seemed to have backfired when Tottenham got on the board first shortly after the half-hour mark. Gareth Bale played a switch ball across the field to Sergio Reguilón, whose first touch pass fell to Lucas Moura in the box, who in turn tapped it to substitute Erik Lamela, on for the injured Son Heung-min. Lamela set his feet before hitting a curling rabona shot through the legs of Thomas Partey, around David Luiz, and past the reach of Bernd Leno. However, the Gunners would draw level before halftime. Kieran Tierney sized up Matt Doherty on the left flank before sprinting past the Spurs right-back and finding Martin Ødegaard in the box. Ødegaard's shot deflected off the inside of the legs of Toby Alderweireld, leaving Hugo Lloris with no chance to make a save as the Norwegian loanee scored his first Premier League goal and his second goal in as many games overall. In the sixty-second minute, substitute Nicolas Pépé fired a through pass to Alexandre Lacazette, who had split the Spurs' center-backs. With his second touch, Lacazette attempted a volley and misfired, but in the follow-through, Davinson Sánchez bundled into his legs, tripping him over. Despite the protests of the Tottenham players and coaches, referee Michael Oliver awarded Arsenal the penalty and Sánchez a yellow card for the foul, both of which were upheld by video assistant referee Paul Tierney. This time, Lacazette fired true, slotting the penalty in the bottom corner as Lloris dived the other way. Down 2–1, Tottenham made matters worse for themselves in the seventy-sixth minute. Lamela, who had already been shown a yellow card in the first half, struck Kieran Tierney in the face with an outstretched hand, prompting Oliver to show him a second yellow card, amounting to a red card and a sending off. Despite being reduced to ten men, Tottenham twice came close to equalizing. Minutes after Lamela's sending off, Harry Kane was offside when he headed in a Lucas Moura free kick. Near the end of regulation time, Kane fired a low free kick that bounced off the far post, and the follow-up shot from Sánchez had to be cleared off the line by Gabriel. Despite the five minutes of stoppage time, Arsenal managed to hold on for the win.[86][87]  
  At the Emirates Stadium on 18 March, Arsenal welcomed Olympiacos in the second leg of their Europa League round of 16 match. With the 3–1 result from the first leg, the Gunners hoped to eliminate the visitors and avoiding eliminating at the hands of the same team for the second straight European campaign. In the nineteenth minute, José Sá launched a long kick downfield to find Youssef El-Arabi sprinting through the Arsenal defense. With Dani Ceballos and Héctor Bellerín giving chase, El-Arabi's shot deflected wide off Bernd Leno's shin. Arsenal continued to have good scoring chances but were unable to capitalize on them. In the twenty-third minute, Gabriel beat El-Arabi in an aerial duel for another of Sá's long kicks and passed forward to Aubameyang, who, with his back to goal, laid it off to Ceballos. Ceballos returned the pass to Aubameyang in between the Olympiacos center-backs, but his shot went just over the bar from 12 yards out. A few minutes into the second half, Yann M'Vila put in a challenge on Ceballos, managed to dispossess him, and poked the ball to Georgios Masouras, who found El-Arabi ahead on the left flank. El-Arabi cut inside on David Luiz before firing a shot that deflected off Gabriel's back and in. The Gunners hoped to rebound quickly; a pacy first-time cross from Kieran Tierney fizzed across the box to Nicolas Pépé, but his shot deflected off the head of teammate Emile Smith Rowe and over the bar. With around ten minutes left in regulation time, El-Arabi found himself again on the losing end of a challenge. This time, Granit Xhaka dispossessed him and found Martin Ødegaard, who quickly passed to Aubameyang on the break. Aubameyang found himself one-on-one against José Sá and tried to chip the ball past the goalkeeper, but his effort went well wide of the goal. With time winding down and Olympiacos still behind, a moment of frustration from Ousseynou Ba saw the Greek side reduced to ten men. As Gabriel Martinelli tried to sprint past Ba, the latter caught the former in the face and brought him down, for which referee Carlos del Cerro Grande showed a yellow card. In response to the yellow card, Ba threw the ball away, prompting del Cerro to brandish a second yellow card in quick succession and dismiss Ba. Aubameyang had two more chances in quick succession to equalize: his backheel flick was deflected up in the air by José Sá, and the rebound was scissor-kicked over the bar. Though El-Arabi's goal gave Olympiacos the win, the Greek side would have still needed two more goals with Arsenal having the advantage on away goals. With an aggregate score of 3–2, Arsenal advanced to the Europa League quarterfinals for the third time in the last four seasons.[88][89]  
  On 21 March, Arsenal faced fellow London side West Ham United at the London Stadium for both teams' last matches of the month before the international break. It was the home team who got off to a hot start, jumping out to a 3–0 in the first thirty-five minutes. West Ham dominated possession in the opening fifteen minutes, and their efforts paid off when Michail Antonio found Jesse Lingard on the edge of the box, whose shot curled away from Bernd Leno into the top far corner. Less than two minutes later, referee Jon Moss awarded the Hammers a free kick on the edge of the box after he judged Bukayo Saka to have committed a foul by clipping Antonio's ankles. As the Arsenal players stood and protested, Jesse Lingard took the free kick quickly and found Jarrod Bowen unmarked on the right flank. Bowen was able to run towards goal before squeezing the shot under the hands of Leno, who punched the turf in frustration. Just after the half-hour mark, West Ham scored their third. Tomáš Souček played a through ball for Bowen to chase after, but Kieran Tierney recovered well to block Bowen's first time cross. The deflection fell to Vladimír Coufal, who sent a high looping header into the box for Antonio, who jumped higher than David Luiz to nod it in. However, on its way in, the ball was unintentionally touched by Souček's foot, leading to claims of offside from several Arsenal players. A VAR check from Martin Atkinson confirmed that the ball had indeed touched Souček, who was onside and awarded the goal, with Antonio given his second assist of the game. From that point, Arsenal finally began to get in the game. In the thirty-eighth minute, Calum Chambers's low cross found Alexander Lacazette in the box. After Lacazette took a touch to steady the ball, he lashed a half-volley attempt that deflected off Souček's outstretched leg and just above the reach of West Ham goalkeeper Łukasz Fabiański, a former Arsenal player. However, because Lacazette's shot was measured to have been going wide initially, it was given as an own goal to Souček. At the hour mark, the Gunners would halve the deficit with another West Ham own goal. Martin Ødegaard played it out wide for Chambers to hit a first time cross into the box, but instead of it reaching an Arsenal player, West Ham center-back Craig Dawson's forward momentum saw him smash the ball into the back of the net before he collided into Fabiański. In the eighty-second minute, the Gunners completed the comeback. Ødegaard played it out wide for another first-time cross, this time from Nicolas Pépé, to be headed in by a leaping Lacazette, who found himself unchallenged between Dawson and Coufal. Minutes later, West Ham nearly came away with all three points. As they looked to clear after an attacking phase of Arsenal, Declan Rice ran from penalty box to penalty box, dribbling past several Arsenal players. With David Luiz closely marking Antonio, the only other West Ham player surging forward, Rice was forced to take a shot, which Leno easily parried out of harm's way. After being down by three goals early on, Arsenal managed overcome their poor start to escape with a 3–3 draw, though both Lacazette and manager Mikel Arteta expressed frustration at how Arsenal had started the game.[90][91]  
  After the international break, Arsenal resumed their Premier League campaign with a home game against Liverpool on 2 April. In the first half, the Gunners managed to hold strong against Liverpool, and it remained scoreless at halftime. It was not until the sixty-fourth minute when the defending champions scored the first goal of the game, from which point they dominated the rest of the game. Trent Alexander-Arnold's cross found substitute Diogo Jota in between Calum Chambers and Rob Holding, and the Portuguese forward's header from close range was too powerful for Bernd Leno to keep out. A few minutes later, Liverpool would double their lead through Mohamed Salah. Fabinho played a long pass over the top for Salah to chase, but Gabriel just about managed to get to it first. With Salah bearing down, the defender's first time effort to try and tackle the ball out of play was blocked by Salah, who now had a few yards of space in which to run forward unopposed. Salah held his patience before slotting the ball through Leno's legs into the goal. Salah had a chance to get two goals in quick succession; in the seventy-second minute, Roberto Firmino lofted a pass to Salah, who ran between Gabriel and Cédric. This time, Leno was able to get behind the shot and parry it away, although he had to scramble for the rebound to prevent Salah from regaining possession. In the closing ten minutes, Liverpool would add a third goal to their tally. After Leno collected a shot from Georginio Wijnaldum, he rolled it to Gabriel, whose pass to Cédric out on the left flank was intercepted by Alexander-Arnold. With his first touch, the Liverpool right-back passed to Salah, who turned infield and found Sadio Mané near the penalty spot. Mohamed Elneny managed to dispossess Mané, but this left the ball free for an onrushing Diogo Jota to blast it in for his second game of the match.[92][93]  
  In the Europa League quarter-finals, Arsenal were drawn against Slavia Prague. The first leg occurred on 8 April at the Emirates Stadium. Neither side had much of an offensive spark in the first half, and the score was still 0–0 at halftime; the closest chances from either side were Rob Holding's header and Lukáš Provod's long shot, respectively, both of which went just over the bar. In the opening minutes of the second half, as Bukayo Saka tried to chase down a pass from Héctor Bellerín, he was brought down just outside of the box by David Zima, who was booked for the foul. Willian took the ensuing free kick and sent it clattering off the right post. Just after the hour mark, Oscar Dorley received a backwards pass from Provod and was immediately put under pressure by Alexandre Lacazette. Lacazette dispossessed Dorley, who was the deepest player and thus the last line of defense for Slavia Prague, and broke free for a one-on-one opportunity against Ondřej Kolář, who was wearing a mask and helmet in his first game back from a skull fracture injury suffered in an earlier Europa League game. Once again, a good Arsenal chance hit the woodwork, as Lacazette's attempt to chip the ball over Kolář hit the top right corner of the goal frame. As the game went on, several players from both sides, including substitutes Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Gabriel Martinelli, and Petr Ševčík, missed good opportunities either just wide or just high of the goal. In the eighty-sixth minute, Arsenal looked to have won the game, as Nicolas Pépé, another substitute, beat Zima to a pass from Aubameyang and lifted the ball over an onrushing Kolář. However, in the closing seconds of extra time, Slavia Prague managed to find the equalizer. First, a shot from Provod was pushed onto the post by Leno to force a corner. From the ensuing set piece, Provod's corner bounced off Pépé's thigh for Tomáš Holeš, who beat Cédric at the far post, to head in from point blank range. Though the game ended 1–1, Slavia Prague came away with a crucial away goal ahead of the second leg.[94][95][96]  
  On 11 April, Arsenal headed north to Bramall Lane to take on relegation-embattled Sheffield United. The Gunners exerted their dominance and set the tempo early on, as an early break in the third minute saw Gabriel Martinelli find Bukayo Saka ahead of him, but the latter's shot went just past the near top corner. In the thirty-third minute, a series of one- and two-touch passes in the final third put Arsenal on the scoreboard. Nicolas Pépé passed the ball out wide to Calum Chambers on the right, who returned it centrally to Thomas Partey. Partey found Alexandre Lacazette on the edge of the box, who immediately played a one-two with Saka. On the return pass, the ball was helped on its way by a Dani Ceballos backheel to Lacazette, who slid the ball into the net past Aaron Ramsdale. In the seventy-first minute, an errant John Lundstram pass was intercepted by Pépé, who then ran forward and managed to get off a low shot towards the far post. Ramsdale could only manage to parry the ball right to Martinelli, who was closest to the rebound and tapped it into the open net to double the Gunners' lead. Arsenal would put the game to bed in the eighty-fifth minute, when an accurate through pass from Partey cut through the Sheffield lines to find Lacazette, who outsprinted Ethan Ampadu to fire in his second goal of the game. The goal also saw Lacazette reach the benchmark of 50 Premier League goals, being only the 10th Arsenal player in history to achieve that feat.[97] The Blades, with only two shots on target, never really managed to challenge Bernd Leno, who kept his first clean sheet in ten Premier League games dating back to the end of January. With the 3–0 result, bottom-of-the-table Sheffield United moved within one game of relegation, while Arsenal moved up to ninth, ahead of Leeds United on goal difference.[98][99]  
  In the second leg of the Europa League quarter-finals on 15 April, Arsenal hoped to finish the job against Slavia Prague and advance to the semi-finals, and a three-goal flurry in a six-minute span early in the first half essentially wrapped up the tie.[100] Arsenal looked to have scored in the fourteenth minute, as a Bukayo Saka strike that ricocheted off the far post fell to Emile Smith Rowe to tap it into the open net, but a VAR review found Smith Rowe to have been offside on Saka's shot. Shortly thereafter, the first goal would come in the eighteenth minute; Smith Rowe wriggled around several Slavia Prague defenders in the box and slipped a pass through to Nicolas Pépé, who bided his time before finding a better angle to fire past Ondřej Kolář from close range. Two minutes later, the Gunners were on the offense again, and as Saka ran to get onto the end of a Smith Rowe cutback pass, Jakub Hromada stuck a leg out to try and intercept the pass but managed only to trip Saka over. For the foul, referee Cüneyt Çakır showed Hromada a yellow card and awarded Arsenal a penalty, which Alexandre Lacazette successfully converted into the opposite corner by hesitating briefly to send Kolář diving the wrong way. The third goal in quick succession came in the twenty-fourth minute. As Calum Chambers ran to receive a pass out wide from Thomas Partey, he evaded the challenge from Slavia Prague captain Jan Bořil, who had advanced forward from left-back, and passed ahead to Saka on the wing. With Bořil out of position, Saka cut inside on David Zima to buy himself a few yards of space to let off a shot, which went in at the near post past a stationary Kolář. Arsenal's dominance in the first half was eminent; in addition to their three-goal tally, they prevented the Czech side from having a single shot on target. This prompted Slavia Prague manager Jindřich Trpišovský to make four substitutions at half-time, though to little effect. Instead, the Gunners added a fourth goal on seventy-seven minutes. Granit Xhaka played a pass that sat up for Nicolas Pépé to receive and sprint on the left flank, and the winger's cross found Lacazette in the box. Zima, who was marking Lacazette, slipped, giving the Frenchman space to maneuver and fire home his second goal of the game for his second brace in as many games in all competitions. The 4–0 win and the 5–1 aggregate score saw Arsenal advanced through to face Villarreal and former Arsenal manager Unai Emery.[101][102]  
  Despite blitzing Slavia Prague for four goals midweek and beating Fulham comfortably in Matchweek 1 of the season, Arsenal came crashing back down at home on 18 April against the 18th place Cottagers, with neither side seemingly able to fire on all cylinders. It did not help Arsenal that captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang had caught malaria playing for Gabon over the international break, sidelining him for a few weeks.[103] In the second minute, Alexandre Lacazette found Gabriel Martinelli bursting through the Fulham defense with a looping pass, but the latter's effort to lift the ball over goalkeeper Alphonse Areola went wide of the post. At the other end of the field, Fulham had a near miss in the twentieth minute, as a Bobby Decordova-Reid shot from the edge of the box ricocheted off Gabriel and fell to Josh Maja, whose shot took a deflection off Rob Holding and just rolled wide of the near post past a scrambling Mathew Ryan. In the fortieth minute, Dani Ceballos seemed to have scored a header from a Héctor Bellerín cross, but video assistant referee Stuart Attwell judged Bukayo Saka, who had made the pass to Bellerín, to be just offside in the buildup, so the goal was taken off. Though the game was still scoreless at halftime, it did not take long for the first goal to come. Just before the hour mark, with Fulham on the offense, Mario Lemina tried to play a through pass to Ola Aina that was cut out by Gabriel. As Lemina and Gabriel chased after the loose ball, the former reached it first and was tripped over by the latter in the box. After a moment of consideration, referee Craig Pawson awarded the Cottagers a penalty, which Maja easily dispatched into the roof of the net. Around ten minutes later, Martinelli trapped a through pass from Emith Smith Rowe just out of reach of Areola before sending in a cross from the touchline to the far post, where it found the head of Nicolas Pépé, but the header from a tight angle hit a recovering Areola and was cleared off the goal line by Tosin Adarabioyo to maintain the Fulham lead. In the seventh minute of stoppage time, Ryan, who had not faced a single shot on target except for the penalty, sprinted forward from his own box to give Saka another player to target for the corner. It was indeed Ryan who connected with the corner and headed the ball on to Ceballos, whose low shot bobbled through the crowd to Areola. Forced to react quickly, Areola could not parry the shot far enough away, as substitute Eddie Nketiah was the fastest to react for an easy tap-in. The goal was confirmed after another VAR check judged Holding to not have made any attempt to play the ball despite being offside on Ceballos' shot. With the last-minute Arsenal equalizer, both London sides shared the spoils.[104][105]  
  On the same day as the draw against Fulham, the club announced their participation in the proposed European Super League as one of the 12 founding member clubs.[106] The news drew immediate and heavy backlash from fans and commentators, especially considering Arsenal's struggles and subpar league standing this season. Under heavy pressure, and with the other five English clubs withdrawing from the Super League, Arsenal announced their withdrawal on 20 April, just two days after the initial announcement.[107][108] Despite this, fans continued to protest, calling for American owner Stan Kroenke to leave the club.[109]  
  Although Arsenal hoped to return to winning ways after the underwhelming draw against Fulham, their disappointing Premier League form continued on 23 April, as they lost at home to Everton 1–0 thanks to a Bernd Leno own goal late in the game. In the first half, Everton twice had good scoring opportunities, though neither chance was converted. At the half-hour mark, Bernd Leno did enough to parry a Richarlison shot out of the reach of a fast-closing Dominic Calvert-Lewin, while Gylfi Sigurðsson hit the top of the crossbar with a free kick from around 27 yards out in the thirty-ninth minute. Six minutes into the second half, Arsenal looked to have been awarded a penalty. As Dani Ceballos tried to dribble the ball away from Richarlison in the box, the latter player appeared to have stuck a foot out and caught Ceballos on the shin, bringing him down. Referee Jon Moss pointed to the spot, but video assistant referee David Coote found Nicolas Pépé to be offside in the buildup, thus nullifying the penalty call. At the other end of the field, Everton had a penalty shout of their own, as a Richarlison cutback hit Pablo Marí's arm, but a quick VAR check ruled Marí's arms to be down by his side in a natural defender's position. In the seventy-sixth minute, Allan picked out Richarlison with a long ball over the top. The Brazilian winger was able to twice get the better of Granit Xhaka, deputizing at left-back, and fire off a low cross into the box for Calvert-Lewin. However, the slightly mishit cross came to Leno for what should have been an easy scoop-up, but the ball slipped through his hands and deflected off his leg on the way up. The ensuing VAR check confirmed Richarlison to be onside for Allan's pass, thus not sparing Leno's blushes. The Gunners tried to find yet another last-minute equalizer in stoppage time but to no avail. Willian tried to pick out the advanced Leno with a cross, but the goalkeeper was marked by Allan, who got to the ball first and could only head it into the path of Martin Ødegaard, whose volley through a crowd of players was saved by Jordan Pickford. Had Ødegaard's volley gone in, it would not have counted, as Moss had already blown the whistle for a Leno foul on Allan as they both leapt for the cross.[110][111]  
  Villarreal and former Arsenal manager Unai Emery welcomed the Gunners to the Estadio de la Cerámica on 29 April for the first leg of the Europa League semi-finals. In the opening minutes, Villarreal managed to get on the scoreboard early with the first chance of the game. As Samuel Chukwueze tried to dribble between Granit Xhaka and Dani Ceballos, the ball slipped free for Manu Trigueros to fire a low shot across goal into the far corner. Just before the half hour mark, the Yellow Submarine would double the lead. A Dani Parejo corner was headed on by Gerard Moreno for Raúl Albiol to volley in from point-blank range at the far post. A few minutes later, Arsenal looked to seemingly stymie Villarreal's momentum with a penalty. Xhaka played a long pass down the left flank for Nicolas Pépé, and as he tried to dribble past Tottenham loanee Juan Foyth into the box, the former was tripped over by the latter. Referee Artur Soares Dias immediately awarded the penalty, but VAR review found Pépé to have handled the ball with his arm before the foul, thus cancelling the penalty call and Foyth's yellow card. Foyth had been repeatedly allowed to make forward runs, and one such run towards the end of the first half was stopped when he was tripped up by Ceballos, who was shown a yellow card as a result. Having finished the first half without a shot on target, Arsenal hoped to turn their fortunes around, but Ceballos' sending off ten minutes into the second half put them at an even greater disadvantage. As Cebellos chased after a slightly overhit pass from Pépé, Parejo slid in and poked it away before Ceballos could get to it. However, in doing so, Ceballos stepped on Parejo's outstretched ankle in stride, earning the former a second yellow card, which amounted to a red card and a dismissal. Villarreal nearly got a third goal in the sixty-sixth minute: substitute Francis Coquelin, a former Arsenal player, played on Moreno for a one-on-one with Leno, but the resulting shot was right at the goalkeeper, who tipped it over the bar. In the seventy-first minute, Arsenal would get another penalty call . As Bukayo Saka attempted to take on and dribble past several Villarreal defenders, he was tripped up by Trigueros. This time, the penalty stood, and with Arsenal's first shot on target, Pépé fired down the middle just past the feet of Gerónimo Rulli, who dived to his right, to halve the deficit. Later on, Villarreal saw themselves also reduced to ten men: Étienne Capoue, who had earlier been awarded a yellow card for a foul on Pépé, put in a late sliding tackle on Saka. In doing so, Capoue injured himself and was taken off the field on a stretcher, but to add insult to injury, Dias showed him a second yellow card for the foul, amounting to another red card and dismissal. Despite the 2–1 loss, the crucial away goal gave Arsenal more of a fighting chance ahead of the second leg at home in a week's time.[112][113][114]  
  Heading into the last month of the Premier League season, Arsenal headed up north to take on Newcastle United at St James' Park on 2 May. Just like Villarreal did mid-week, the Gunners opened the scoring in the opening minutes. David Luiz played a long pass to find Héctor Bellerín behind the Newcastle defense. Bellerín's first-time cross found Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in the box, but the Gunners captain mistimed his shot and the ball ricocheted backwards off his heel. The ball bounced to the edge of the box for Mohamed Elneny to volley it, and despite Martin Dúbravka getting a palm to the ball, the pace of the shot carried it into the net for Elneny's first Premier League goal in 66 games.[115] As the game progressed, both goalkeepers were forced to make crucial saves: Allan Saint-Maximin's self-deflected shot was tipped over by Mathew Ryan, while Granit Xhaka's long-range effort was palmed away by Dúbravka. On the ensuing set piece from the latter opportunity, Elneny nearly scored again: his header from a Willian corner was headed off the goal line by Miguel Almirón. In the second half, another Arsenal goal helped put the game to bed. After Aubameyang was dispossessed, Martin Ødegaard found Gabriel Martinelli in space out wide on the left flank. Martinelli's first-time cross flew past the outstretched leg of Ciaran Clark to Aubameyang, and this time, he connected well with the ball to volley in from close range. To make matters worse for Newcastle, a poor tackle from Fabian Schär on Martinelli in the ninetieth minute resulted in a straight red card and a dismissal from referee Mike Dean, capping off a comfortable 2–0 Gunners win.[116]  
  With home advantage in the second leg of the Europa League semi-finals, Arsenal hoped to overcome the one-goal deficit against Villarreal on 6 May. The visitors, on the other hand, wasted no time trying to increase their lead and put the tie out of reach, as a curling shot from Samuel Chukwueze in the fifth minute forced Bernd Leno to make an acrobatic save. In the twenty-sixth minute, the ball pinballed around the box before falling to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, whose trivela shot hit the far post past a scrambling Gerónimo Rulli. Another Aubameyang shot, this time in the thirty-ninth minute, was spilled by Rulli between his legs, but the goalkeeper managed to secure the shot before it rolled into the goal. With the score still at 0–0, Arsenal came out of halftime hoping to pick up the intensity. In the first three minutes, shots from Nicolas Pépé and Emile Smith Rowe both curled just wide of the far post. With less than fifteen minutes left in the match, the Gunners still continued to search for an equalizer goal, which, with the away goal advantage from the first leg, would have sent Arsenal to the final. However, Aubameyang hit the woodwork once again in the seventy-ninth minute, this time with a header off the near post from a Héctor Bellerín cross. Even with five extra minutes of stoppage time, the Gunners were unable to score; the 0–0 result meant that Villarreal would advance to the Europa League final with the 2–1 result from the first leg. The elimination, combined with the unlikely prospect of finishing seventh at best in the league, meant that next season Arsenal could be missing out on European competition altogether for the first time since the 1995–96 season.[117][118][119]  
  Three days later, Arsenal returned to Premier League action, hoping to do one better against West Bromwich Albion at home. However, the Baggies were the more threatening team early on: Matheus Pereira's hit from outside of the box curled just wide of the far post and Bernd Leno, and while Callum Robinson's chip over Leno hit the crossbar, he was found to be offside regardless. Twenty-nine minutes in, Willian played the ball down the line for Bukayo Saka, whose low cross found Emile Smith Rowe amongst the West Brom defense to be volleyed in from close range for the latter's first Premier League goal in 19 appearances. To compound West Brom's troubles, Arsenal added a second goal five minutes later. On the right flank, Nicolas Pépé cut inside on Conor Townsend before rifling a left-footed shot from the edge of the box to the near top corner just past Sam Johnstone. A third goal nearly came just before the hour mark, as another low cross from Saka was unable to be converted by both Gabriel Martinelli and Smoth Rowe. In the sixty-seventh minute, a cross from Kieran Tierney managed to only find Townsend, who immediately rushed forward out of defense and passed to Pereira near the center circle. Pereira continued to run downfield, holding off Dani Ceballos and Mohamed Elneny, and just as Gabriel was about to put in a tackle just outside the box, he hit a low shot to the far post just past Leno. The Gunners' third goal would finally come in the ninetieth minute from a 25-yard Willian free kick; this was Willian's first goal for Arsenal in 25 league games and in 37 games overall. While the 3–1 result saw Arsenal hang on to the slim chance of European football next season, it was more impactful for West Brom, as the loss saw the team officially relegated and manager Sam Allardyce's record of never being relegated broken.[120][121]  
  Arsenal faced London rivals Chelsea at the Stamford Bridge on 12 May. From a statistics perspective, Chelsea dominated the game. The Blues had more than double the percentage of possession, and outshot the Gunners 19 to 5, with five and two shots on target, respectively. In the first half alone, Chelsea had eight shots, compared to Arsenal's two. However, of those two shots, one was on target, and this would be the difference maker in the game.[122] In the eleventh minute, Kai Havertz intercepted a backpass from Gabriel to Pablo Marí to set up a one-on-one with Bernd Leno, but the ensuing shot was skied over the bar. Four minutes later, however, Arsenal were able to capitalize on a similar mistake from Chelsea. As Chelsea tried to play out from the back, Jorginho, under pressure from Emile Smith Rowe, attempted to pass back to goalkeeper Kepa. However, because Kepa was out to the left of his goal, he had to scramble back to prevent the pass from rolling into the open net, barely managing to bat the ball off the line at full stretch. The rebound fell to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who centered it for Smith Rowe to score his second Premier League goal in as many games. Chelsea continued their offensive barrage well into the second half, when they looked to have grabbed an equalizer. Mason Mount's corner in the sixty-first minute was headed onwards by Havertz to the back post for Christian Pulisic, who made a darting run behind the Arsenal defense, to redirect into the net with his chest from close range. However, VAR review found Pulisic to be clearly offside on Havertz's header, and the goal was disallowed. Just before stoppage time, Chelsea again came close to scoring, but the equalizer was not there: Kurt Zouma's header from Hakim Ziyech's looping cross was tipped onto the crossbar by Leno, and former Arsenal striker Olivier Giroud followed up by also smashing the crossbar with the rebound.[123] The 1–0 win saw Arsenal move up to eighth and within a point of North London rivals Tottenham Hotspur, though the latter still had a game in hand. Notably, this was the first time Arsenal completed the double over Chelsea since the 2003–04 Invincibles season.[124]  
  In Arsenal's final away game of the 2020–21 Premier League season, they headed across town to Selhurst Park in south London to take on Crystal Palace. This match saw the return of fans, though not at full capacity, and Eagles manager Roy Hodgson's last home game before retirement. The first half hour saw barely any threatening shots from either side until the thirty-second minute, when Christian Benteke headed the ball down for Jeffrey Schlupp to try a volley from just outside the box, which forced Bernd Leno to make a diving fingertip save to his left. A few minutes later, after several passes down the left flank between Bukayo Saka and Kieran Tierney, the latter sent in a cross that found Nicolas Pépé, who made a late run into the box to volley the ball in and give Arsenal the lead. A brief physical incident between Benteke and Saka later in the first half saw the former and Mohamed Elneny, who had come to Saka's defense, each get a yellow card from referee Anthony Taylor. Just after the hour mark, Andros Townsend whipped a free kick into the box, where it was headed in by Benteke to draw Crystal Palace even. However, the Gunners would spoil the occasion with a pair of stoppage time goals to take the win. Just as the game entered stoppage time, Martin Ødegaard's lofted cross floated over a leaping Gary Cahill to find fellow Gunners substitute Gabriel Martinelli, who ran around the back of the Eagles defence, got to the ball ahead of Joel Ward, lifted the ball over the reach of goalkeeper Vicente Guaita with his first touch, and tapped the ball in with his second. In the final seconds of the game, Calum Chambers sent a long throw-in towards Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who headed the ball down into the path of Nicolas Pépé. Pépé surged forward into the box and held off Cahill and James Tomkins before firing a low shot that went in at the far post before Guaita could get down to make a save. The match ended 3–1 to Arsenal, keeping their slim chances of European football alive ahead of the final matchday.[125][126]  
  For the season ending match, Arsenal hosted Brighton and Hove Albion at the Emirates Stadium on 23 May, with a limited number of fans being allowed in the Emirates for the first time in 2021 and the first time all season since 13 December. The first half was goalless, though the Gunners had several close chances. The first shot from Thomas Partey went just wide of the post, while his second shot later on was tipped over by Robert Sánchez. Thirty minutes in, a Martin Ødegaard corner was flicked on by Partey to Rob Holding, who poked the ball just over the line before a clearance from Ben White, but Holding was found to be offside on Partey's header. Near halftime, Granit Xhaka's lofted pass found Gabriel at the far post, but the ensuing header hit off the top of the crossbar. In the second half, the deadlock was finally broken in the forty-ninth minute. Arsenal moved the ball from the left flank to the right flank with a series of passes that ended with Calum Chambers fizzing a low cross into the box for Nicolas Pépé. Pépé controlled the ball before firing in a half-volley with his second touch, and eleven minutes later, he would double his tally and increase Arsenal's lead. Ødegaard played the ball forward for Pépé down the right flank, who drove into the box and hit a low shot through Lewis Dunk's legs that went in at the near post. In the seventy-second minute, Partey would have another chance to bag his first Arsenal goal but to no avail: after receiving a pass from Xhaka, he quickly turned and rocketed a volley that came off the crossbar. Brighton, with only one shot on target from Jakub Moder all game, failed to seriously threaten the Gunners, enabling Bernd Leno to keep a clean sheet in a 2–0 win.[127][128]  
  The final round of matches of the league season kicked-off at the same time, and ninth-placed Arsenal needed several results to go their way in order to secure European football for the 25th consecutive season. Heading into the match, Arsenal needed to win against Brighton and have seventh-placed Tottenham Hotspur and eighth placed Everton, who were both a point ahead, draw or lose in order to leapfrog them into seventh and qualify the newly formed UEFA Europa Conference League. Despite the 2–0 win and Everton's 5–0 smashing at the hands of the champions Manchester City, which saw Arsenal overtake Everton into eighth, a late brace from Gareth Bale saw Tottenham beat Leicester City 4–2 and retain their seventh-place position. As a result, Arsenal missed out on qualifying for any sort of European football for the 2021–22 season, the first time they had done so since 1995. At the end of the season, Alexandre Lacazette finished as Arsenal's top goalscorer with 17 goals (13 in the Premier League), just ahead of Nicolas Pépé on 16 goals and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on 15 goals (each with 10 in the Premier League); this was the first time Arsenal had three players with more than 10 Premier League goals in the season since the 2016–17 season. Three players tied for the most assists: Bukayo Saka, Emile Smith Rowe, and Willian each had seven assists across all competitions, though Willian led the way with five assists in the Premier League. Goalkeeper Bernd Leno made the most appearances with 49, of which 35 came in the Premier League.[129]  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as has been defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Source: Premier League Rules for classification: 1) Points; 2) Goal difference; 3) Goals scored; 4) If the champions, relegated teams or qualified teams for UEFA competitions cannot be determined by rules 1 to 3, rules 4.1 to 4.3 are applied – 4.1) Points gained in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.2) Away goals scored in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.3) Play-offs[214] Notes:  
  ^ Since the winners of the 2020–21 FA Cup, Leicester City, also qualified for the Europa League based on league position, the second Europa League group stage berth allocated to England was transferred to the sixth-placed team.  
  ^ Since the winners of the 2020–21 EFL Cup, Manchester City, qualified for European competition based on league position, the Europa Conference League berth awarded to the EFL Cup winners was transferred to the highest-placed Premier League team not already qualified for European competition, the seventh-placed team.  
  Updated to match(es) played on 23 May 2021. Source: Premier league A = Away; H = Home; W = Win; D = Draw; L = Loss  
  The draw for the semi-finals was held on 19 March 2021, after the quarter-final draw. The Gunners' win meant Villarreal's manager Unai Emery would face his former side in the semifinals. Emery had guided Arsenal to the final in 2019, possibly his most notable moment during an 18-month stint at Arsenal between May 2018 and November 2019.[221]  
  Each award winner was chosen via open-access polls on the club's official website.  
  ^ James, Josh (18 June 2013). "All-time Arsenal". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 22 June 2023. Retrieved 22 June 2023.  
  The 2021–22 season was Arsenal Football Club's 30th season in the Premier League, their 96th consecutive season in the top flight of English football and 105th season in the top flight overall.[1][2] It began on 1 July 2021 and concluded on 30 June 2022, with competitive matches played between August and May. In addition to the domestic league, Arsenal also participated in the FA Cup and EFL Cup, but they did not participate in any European competition for the first time since 1995–96, owing to an eight-place finish the previous season.[3][4]  
  Managed by Mikel Arteta in his second full season, Arsenal were the youngest team in the Premier League with an average starting age of 24 years and 308 days – more than a whole year younger than the next team.[5][6] They finished fifth in the Premier League, and qualified for next season's UEFA Europa League.  
  Arsenal had four players unavailable for pre-season friendlies, as Bernd Leno, Bukayo Saka, Kieran Tierney, and Granit Xhaka had competed in Euro 2020, which ended on 11 July. On 13 July, Arsenal began their pre-season tour of Scotland with a 2–1 defeat to Hibernian. This was followed by a match four days later against defending Scottish champions Rangers, who were celebrating their 150th anniversary. Arsenal fell behind twice but recovered for a 2–2 draw.[16]  
  Between the two Scottish friendlies, it was announced on 15 July that French centre-back William Saliba, who spent the second half of last season on loan at Nice, would join Guendouzi at Marseille on a season-long loan deal.[17] On 19 July, Arsenal made their second acquisition, signing 21-year-old Belgian midfielder Albert Sambi Lokonga from Anderlecht for about £17.2 million.[18][19]  
  In lieu of the Florida Cup matches, Arsenal organised friendlies at their London Colney training ground against two other London sides, Millwall from the EFL Championship on 24 July and newly promoted Premier League side Watford on 28 July, with both matches finishing 4–1 to Arsenal.[23][24]  
  Arsenal concluded the month with the announced signing of 23-year-old English centre-back Ben White on 30 July, who joined from fellow Premier League club Brighton & Hove Albion on a £50 million deal.[25]  
  To finish their pre-season, Arsenal participated in the Mind Series pre-season tournament, which supported Mind and other mental health charities, against London rivals Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur.[26][27] The Gunners faced Chelsea on 1 August at home in the first of the two matches. Manager Mikel Arteta opted to not start any of the new signings, although Ben White was substituted on at halftime for his debut. Granit Xhaka's second-half header equalised after Kai Havertz's first-half goal, but minutes later, Tammy Abraham capitalised on an Arsenal defensive error to give Chelsea the lead again. A shot from Joe Willock in the last ten minutes looked to have crossed the goal line, but without the aid of goal-line technology, referee Andre Marriner did not award the goal, and the match ended 2–1 to Chelsea.[28][29]  
  For their last pre-season game, Arsenal played their second Mind Series match, this time away to Tottenham Hotspur on 8 August, with Ben White joining fellow new signing Albert Sambi Lokonga in the starting lineup. After both teams came close to scoring on several occasions, Tottenham broke the deadlock in the 79th minute, as Son Heung-min finishing off a cross from Serge Aurier for the game's solitary goal.[30] By losing both of the matches, Arsenal finished at the bottom of the tournament, while Chelsea beat Tottenham for the inaugural title on goals scored.[31]  
  After being loaned to fellow Premier League side Newcastle United at the end of last season's winter transfer window, Joe Willock had scored eight goals in 14 league appearances, and manager Steve Bruce was keen on bringing him back.[32] As a result, on 13 August, Arsenal announced the transfer of the academy graduate from the first team to Newcastle United on a six-year deal worth at least £20 million.[33][34]  
  That same day, Arsenal opened the new Premier League season and headed to the Brentford Community Stadium in west London to take on newly promoted Brentford F.C., who were making their Premier League debut. The Gunners began the season without Alexandre Lacazette and captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who were ruled out a few hours prior to kick-off due to illness, while Ben White and Albert Sambi Lokonga made their competitive debuts for the team.[35] Academy graduate Folarin Balogun was also named to the starting lineup for his Premier League debut.[36] After Bryan Mbeumo hit the post in the 12th minute, Sergi Canós scored the opening goal of the season 10 minutes later. Meanwhile, Arsenal struggled offensively, with Kieran Tierney having their only shot on target in the first half. In the 73rd minute, Christian Nørgaard doubled Brentford's lead, heading in a long throw-in from substitute Mads Bech Sørensen. Despite several close opportunities, Arsenal were unable to find a consolation goal, and as a result, they opened the season with a 2–0 loss.[37][38]  
  On 20 August, Arsenal announced two more signings.[39] Norwegian midfielder Martin Ødegaard, who had been on loan at Arsenal from Real Madrid for the second half of last season, joined on a permanent deal worth £34 million.[40] Meanwhile, English goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale joined from Sheffield United, which had been relegated from the Premier League last season, in a deal worth up to £30 million.[41]  
  Arsenal played the home opener of their Premier League campaign on 22 August against cross-town rivals Chelsea. The match was decided by two first-half goals, a tap-in from Romelu Lukaku and a top-corner strike from Reece James. With a second consecutive 2–0 loss to open the season, Arsenal dropped to 19th, just ahead of last-placed Norwich City on goal difference.[42][43]  
  On 25 August, ahead of their first Carabao Cup match of the season, Arsenal announced that Lucas Torreira would once again go out on loan, this time to Serie A team ACF Fiorentina for the entire 2021–22 season. Torreira had spent the entirety of last season on loan at La Liga team Atlético Madrid, accumulating 26 appearances and one goal in all competitions; Atlético Madrid went on to win the league.[44]  
  Arsenal entered the Carabao Cup in the second round, facing Championship side West Bromwich Albion away at the Hawthorns. Aaron Ramsdale made his debut and started in goal, while Martin Ødegaard made his first start as a full-fledged Arsenal player. With West Brom opting to field a team of mostly backup and academy players, Arsenal dominated the game from start to end. In the first half, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored two goals before Nicolas Pépé added a third in stoppage time, tapping the ball in after Aubameyang's failed bicycle kick attempt. Bukayo Saka scored five minutes into the second half before Aubameyang completed his hat-trick in the 62nd minute. Substitute Alexandre Lacazette further increased Arsenal's lead seven minutes later, and they won 6–0 to advance to the third round.[45][46]  
  On 28 August, Arsenal continued their Premier League campaign, facing Manchester City away at the Etihad Stadium. A seventh-minute header from İlkay Gündoğan, which Bernd Leno only managed to punch into the roof of the net, was followed by a close-range goal from Ferran Torres five minutes later. Referee Martin Atkinson showed Granit Xhaka a red card for a dangerous tackle on João Cancelo in the 35th minute. With the man advantage, Manchester City added a third goal shortly before halftime, with Gabriel Jesus redirecting a pass from Jack Grealish into the goal. Manchester City added two more goals in the second half, first with Rodri early in the second half, and then with Torres scoring his second goal of the game by beating Leno to head in a cross from Riyad Mahrez. With the 5–0 result and their third consecutive loss to open their Premier League campaign, Arsenal dropped to 20th, sitting at the bottom of the table and behind both Wolverhampton Wanderers and Norwich City on goal difference and goals scored.[47][48]  
  With the end of the summer transfer window approaching at the end of the month, Arsenal sought to make some final transactions. On 30 August, Willian, who had two years remaining in his contract, left by mutual consent and returned to boyhood club Corinthians in Brazil.[49] On the final day of the transfer window, three first team players were loaned out for the rest of the 2021–22 season: Reiss Nelson joined Feyenoord in the Eredivisie,[50] Rúnar Alex Rúnarsson joined OH Leuven in the Belgian First Division A,[51] and Héctor Bellerín joined Real Betis in La Liga.[52] Meanwhile, the club made one deadline day signing, adding 22-year-old Japanese defender Takehiro Tomiyasu from Serie A side Bologna on a £16 million deal.[53]  
  Ahead of the international break, Arsenal held a friendly against Brentford, to whom they had lost their first game of the Premier League campaign. The match was held behind closed doors at the Arsenal Training Centre in London Colney. After neither team scored in the first half, Arsenal scored twice early in the second half. The opener, which was scored by Gabriel, returning from injury, was followed by a free kick from Alexandre Lacazette at the hour mark. Cédric scored twice in the final 15 minutes to cap off the 4–0 victory and avenge Arsenal's opening day loss.[54][55]  
  After the international break, Arsenal, sitting at the bottom of the Premier League standings, took on 19th placed Norwich City at home on 11 September. New signing Takehiro Tomiyasu made his debut, starting at right back, while Aaron Ramsdale started over Bernd Leno in goal. The match remained scoreless at halftime, though Arsenal came close on several occasions. In the 66th minute, an initial shot by Nicolas Pépé rebounded off the post back to him, and he was immediately tackled by Brandon Williams before he could take a second shot. The ball then ricocheted off several players before Aubameyang tapped it in; a VAR check confirmed that the goal was onside, thus putting Arsenal into the lead and giving them their first Premier League goal of the season. Although Arsenal were unable to score a second goal, the 1–0 win was Arsenal's first of their Premier League campaign, and it elevated them out of the bottom three positions.[56][57]  
  Aaron Ramsdale kept his place in goal as Arsenal travelled to Turf Moor to play Burnley on 18 September. After Ashley Westwood clipped Bukayo Saka just outside of the penalty arc, Martin Ødegaard scored the ensuing 25-yard free kick in the 30th minute. In the 68th minute, Matěj Vydra chased down Ben White's back pass to Ramsdale before being closed down and tackled in the box by the latter. Referee Anthony Taylor awarded Burnley a penalty, having originally thought that Ramsdale made contact with Vydra before the ball, but Taylor reversed his decision after taking a second look at the incident on the pitchside VAR monitor. Neither team had many other close shots on goal, but a second consecutive 1–0 victory improved Arsenal to 13th.[58][59]  
  In the midweek match, Arsenal faced EFL League One team AFC Wimbledon on 22 September at home in the third round of the Carabao Cup.[60] Manager Mikel Arteta fielded an almost entirely new starting eleven, with Thomas Partey the only holdover from the squad that started against Burnley and Eddie Nketiah making his season debut. Early in the match, Alexandre Lacazette converted a penalty following a foul on Gabriel Martinelli. Late in the second half, Emile Smith Rowe and Nketiah both scored in a three-minute span to secure the 3–0 victory, advancing Arsenal into the fourth round.[61][62]  
  The first of two North London derby matches in the Premier League season took place on 25 September, as Arsenal hosted rivals Tottenham Hotspur at the Emirates Stadium. In the 12th minute, Emile Smith Rowe ran in front of Davinson Sánchez to strike in a pass from Bukayo Saka past Hugo Lloris. Arsenal were on the break 15 minutes later, with Smith Rowe passing to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang for Arsenal's second goal. A third goal came in the 34th minute, as Saka scored off the rebound after Harry Kane had tackled the ball. With just over 10 minutes to go, Son Heung-min finally scored Tottenham's first goal of the match after receiving Sergio Reguilón's cross; Aaron Ramsdale managed to get his left hand to the ball but could not keep it out. In stoppage time, Ramsdale made a leaping save to deny a top-corner shot from Lucas Moura. The 3–1 victory was Arsenal's third in a row after losing their first three matches; meanwhile, Tottenham lost their third game in a row after starting off with three wins and topping the league table. As a result, Arsenal moved up to 10th place, tied on points and goal difference with Tottenham in 11th but ahead due to goals scored.[63][64]  
  Arsenal's first match of the month was a Premier League match away to Brighton & Hove Albion at the Amex Stadium on 2 October. Albert Sambi Lokonga played in place of Granit Xhaka, who had been ruled out for up to three months after suffering a knee injury in the match against Tottenham Hotspur.[67] In the last few minutes of the match, penalty claims from Brighton for a shove on Shane Duffy by Gabriel were dismissed by VAR. Neither team was able to score all game, though Brighton had the majority of possession as well as 21 shots to Arsenal's eight; of these shots, both teams had two on target.[68][69]  
  During the international break, Arsenal hosted fellow London side Queens Park Rangers F.C. from the EFL Championship for a closed-door friendly match at the London Colney training ground on 6 October. Arsenal won 3–2, although the goal scorers for either team were not made publicly known.[70]  
  On 18 October, Arsenal took on south London side Crystal Palace, managed by former Arsenal player Patrick Vieira. In the eighth minute, a shot from Nicolas Pépé was parried by goalkeeper Vicente Guaita to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who beat James McArthur to tap in the rebound. Crystal Palace equalized early in the second half; after Jordan Ayew dispossessed Thomas Partey, Christian Benteke scored with the rebound. In the 73rd minute, after Conor Gallagher dispossessed Albert Sambi Lokonga and Crystal Palace were on the break, Odsonne Édouard scored off the underside of the crossbar to give Crystal Palace the lead. Arsenal finally drew even in the fifth minute of stoppage time, with a shot from Ben White deflected by Guaita into the path of substitute Alexandre Lacazette for a tap-in, and the game ended 2–2.[71][72]  
  In their second Premier League match at home in four days, 12th-placed Arsenal hosted 13th-placed Aston Villa. Left-back Kieran Tierney missed his first Premier League match of the season due to a bruised right ankle, thus giving Nuno Tavares his first Premier League start.[73] Thomas Partey scored a header off Emile Smith Rowe's corner in the 23rd minute for his first Arsenal goal. In first-half stoppage time, referee Craig Pawson consulted the pitchside VAR monitor for Matt Targett's challenge on Alexandre Lacazette and awarded Arsenal a penalty. Former Arsenal goalkeeper Emiliano Martínez saved Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's initial shot by diving down to his left, but Aubameyang tapped in the rebound. Ten minutes into the second half, Smith Rowe intercepted a pass from John McGinn to Matty Cash, with the ball rebounding to Albert Sambi Lokonga, who passed out wide to Tavares. Tavares's through pass to Aubameyang was then flicked forward to Smith Rowe, who continued his run before eventually firing a shot that deflected off Tyrone Mings and the near post past Martínez. Aston Villa were able to score a consolation goal late in the match when Leon Bailey's run along the edge of the box took the ball into the path of Jacob Ramsey, whose first-time shot found the top corner, but Arsenal hung on for the 3–1 victory.[74][75]  
  In the midweek match at home against fellow Premier League club Leeds United on 26 October in the fourth round of the EFL Cup, Bernd Leno made his first start in goal since the previous round's match against AFC Wimbledon a month ago. Neither team scored in the first half, but ten minutes into the second half, Calum Chambers was substituted on in place of an injured Ben White before scoring the opening goal 23 seconds later. After Emile Smith Rowe's corner was headed around the box by Eddie Nketiah and Nicolas Pépé, Chambers beat Jack Harrison to the header; referee Andre Marriner confirmed that the ball had crossed the goal line before Illan Meslier could parry the ball away. On 69 minutes, Arsenal doubled their lead when Nketiah intercepted a backwards header from Leeds captain Liam Cooper to Meslier, guided the ball over Meslier, and slotted in the goal from a narrow angle; this was Nketiah's second goal in as many appearances all season.[76][77] The 2–0 result advanced Arsenal to the quarter-finals, in which they were drawn at home against League One team Sunderland.[78]  
  Arsenal finished the month away to Leicester City at the King Power Stadium on 30 October, with the match being decided by two early goals. After Daniel Amartey nearly scored an own goal in the opening minute, Gabriel scored a header, and his first goal of the season, in the fifth minute on a corner from Bukayo Saka, who was making his 100th senior club appearance.[79] In the eighteenth minute, Alexandre Lacazette received a pass from Saka before running into a crowd of Leicester defenders in the box. After Jonny Evans dispossessed Lacazette, Luke Thomas's attempted clearance fell to Emile Smith Rowe, who fired in the second goal. Meanwhile, Aaron Ramsdale made several key saves in a performance that earned him his first Man of the Match as an Arsenal player. Among these was a leaping save near the end of the first half to parry a James Maddison free kick onto the crossbar before Evans's shot from the rebound was cleared off the line by Thomas Partey. The 2–0 victory extended Arsenal's unbeaten streak since the beginning of September to seven matches in the league and nine in all competitions.[80][81]  
  On 7 November, Arsenal faced Watford at home. In the seventh minute, Ainsley Maitland-Niles dispossessed Ismaïla Sarr before Alexandre Lacazette's chipped ball was deflected by Ben Foster to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang. Aubameyang's first touch then took the ball into the path of Bukayo Saka, whose shot went in between Nicolas Nkoulou and a recovering Foster for what seemed to be the opening goal. However, while Saka was in front of Nkoulou, he was also behind of Foster, thus making him offside, and the goal was disallowed. In the 34th minute, referee Kevin Friend awarded Arsenal a penalty after Danny Rose ran into Lacazette, who was trying to control an errant shot from Maitland-Niles. Foster then saved Aubameyang's penalty before recovering the rebound. In the 56th minute, Ben White regained possession of the ball in the Arsenal offensive third and ran forward, evading Juraj Kucka and Joshua King before running into Moussa Sissoko. The ball then fell to Emile Smith Rowe on the edge of the box, who fired into the far corner for what would be the match's only goal, as well as Smith Rowe's third goal in as many Premier League matches. Martin Ødegaard nearly scored a second goal on 73 minutes, but Aubameyang, who had been in an offside position, touched the ball right before it crossed the goal line. In the 89th minute, Kucka, who was already on a yellow card after a foul on Lacazette in the first half, was shown a second yellow card for a foul on Nuno Tavares and was sent off. The 1–0 victory continued Arsenal's rise up the table, as they moved into fifth place.[84][85]  
  After the international break, Arsenal travelled to Anfield to take on Liverpool on 20 November. After there was contact between Takehiro Tomiyasu and Sadio Mané as the players were challenging for a header, managers Mikel Arteta and Jürgen Klopp engaged in a verbal dispute on the sideline, for which referee Michael Oliver showed a yellow card to both managers. After Mané and Mohamed Salah were both denied by point-blank saves from Aaron Ramsdale earlier in the game, Mané headed a Trent Alexander-Arnold free kick into the ground and away from Ramsdale for the opening goal in the 39th minute. Early in the second half, Diogo Jota added a second goal for Liverpool after intercepting a backwards pass from Nuno Tavares. In the 73rd minute, a fast break by Liverpool was finished off with Mané centering the ball for Salah to finish from close range. Four minutes later, Takumi Minamino, having just been substituted into the match, slotted home Alexander-Arnold's cross at the back post after just 48 seconds on the pitch. The 4–0 defeat ended Arsenal's unbeaten run at eight matches in the league and 10 in all competitions, although they remained in fifth.[86][87]  
  Arsenal rebounded seven days later against bottom-of-the-table Newcastle United and new manager Eddie Howe, who made his debut in the Newcastle dugout; Howe had missed his first match the previous week in quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19.[88] Neither team was able to score in the first half. Jonjo Shelvey came closest for Newcastle in the 30th minute, with his shot parried onto the crossbar by Aaron Ramsdale. Shortly before halftime, after Emile Smith Rowe's header was saved by Martin Dúbravka, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang missed from close range and kicked the rebound against the outside of the post. In the 56th minute, Bukayo Saka passed back to Smith Rowe, who passed infield to Nuno Tavares; meanwhile, Saka had continued his run forward, and after receiving the ball from Tavares, he fired a low shot into the far corner past Dúbravka for the opening goal. Eight minutes later, Saka was forced off with an injury and was replaced by Gabriel Martinelli. Less than two minutes after coming on, Martinelli finished off a chipped pass from Takehiro Tomiyasu with a first-time volley to bolster Arsenal's lead. Arsenal maintained their 2–0 lead to win the match and stay in fifth place.[89][90]  
  Arsenal began December with a midweek fixture at Old Trafford on 2 December away to Manchester United, who were led by caretaker manager Michael Carrick in his last game before interim manager Ralf Rangnick taking over.[91] From a 13th minute corner by Martin Ødegaard, Emile Smith Rowe scored the opening goal from outside of the box, with the assist from Mohamed Elneny after Harry Maguire's initial clearance. Referee Martin Atkinson was initially hesitant to award the goal, as goalkeeper David de Gea lay injured after having his ankle stepped on by his teammate Fred, but the goal was made official after VAR review. Shortly before halftime, Manchester United equalized after Jadon Sancho passed infield to Fred, who squared the ball for Bruno Fernandes to slot it in past Aaron Ramsdale. In the 52nd minute, the home side took the lead as Cristiano Ronaldo finished off Marcus Rashford's low cross. However, Arsenal equalized less than two minutes later; on the right flank, Gabriel Martinelli received Thomas Partey's through pass before firing a low cross into the box for Ødegaard, whose shot curled in past the reach of de Gea. In the 68th minute, Atkinson initially did not award a penalty to Manchester United after Ødegaard's tackle on Fred, but he reversed his decision after consulting the pitchside VAR monitor. Ronaldo scored again, converting the penalty for his 800th career goal and the decisive goal of the match. Despite the 3–2 defeat, Arsenal remained in fifth place for the fourth consecutive matchweek.[92][93]  
  Four days later, Arsenal lost their second game in a row after playing away to Everton at Goodison Park, with Granit Xhaka making his return from injury.[94] Minutes before halftime, a free kick from Andros Townsend was headed in by Richarlison, but the goal was disallowed as the latter was found to be offside by VAR. However, in first-half stoppage time, Arsenal scored the opening goal with Martin Ødegaard slotting in a cross from Kieran Tierney with a side-foot volley. In the 56th minute, Richarlison seemed to have scored after receiving a pass from Abdoulaye Doucouré, but he was ruled offside by VAR again. Richarlison was finally able to score in the 80th minute, as he headed in the rebound after a Demarai Gray shot from outside the box hit the crossbar. After Eddie Nketiah missed a close-range header in the 84th minute, Gray scored Everton's second goal of the game in the second of six minutes of stoppage time. Gray's winning strike, which came from a similar location to the one that hit the crossbar, hit off the far post and into the goal, resulting in a 2–1 loss for Arsenal.[95][96]  
  On 11 December, Arsenal returned home to the Emirates Stadium for a match against a depleted Southampton side, who were without several key outfield players and both first-choice goalkeepers, with emergency goalkeeper Willy Caballero starting after signing earlier in the week.[97] Meanwhile, Arsenal themselves started without captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who had reportedly been dropped to the bench for a 'disciplinary breach' by manager Mikel Arteta.[98] In the 21st minute, Arsenal scored first after playing out from the back, as a series of passes down the length of the pitch culminated with Bukayo Saka's low cutback being finished off by Alexandre Lacazette. Six minutes later, Arsenal doubled their lead. After Kieran Tierney received Takehiro Tomiyasu's high pass at the back post, his cross was blocked by Tino Livramento; however, Tierney recovered the rebound and headed the ball to Martin Ødegaard, who scored a header for his third goal in as many matches. After Gabriel had a tap-in disallowed for being offside in the 59th minute, he headed in a corner from Gabriel Martinelli three minutes later. Arsenal continued to apply pressure to Southampton in the search of a fourth goal, but both Martinelli and Saka hit the posts with their shots. Meanwhile, Aaron Ramsdale made six saves to secure the clean sheet and a 3–0 win.[99][100]  
  The day before the home match against West Ham United on 15 December, the club announced that Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang would be stripped of the club captaincy due to repeated disciplinary breaches and would not be considered for the West Ham match.[101] Manager Mikel Arteta elaborated that the captaincy would be shared among a "'leadership group' of senior players," including Alexandre Lacazette and Granit Xhaka, the latter of whom had preceded Aubameyang as captain.[102]  
  After Alexandre Lacazette had assumed the captaincy role against Southampton, manager Mikel Arteta opted to retain him as captain against West Ham.[103] Three minutes into the second half, Lacazette played a through pass to Gabriel Martinelli, who ran past the West Ham defense and curled in the opening goal. In the 67th minute, Vladimír Coufal, who was already on a yellow card after contact with Kieran Tierney in the 11th minute, was sent off after a second yellow card following a tackle on Lacazette in the box. For the same foul, referee Anthony Taylor awarded Arsenal a penalty, which Lacazette took but was saved by Łukasz Fabiański. On 87 minutes, after Takehiro Tomiyasu dispossessed Saïd Benrahma, Bukayo Saka recovered the ball before passing it near the center line to substitute Emile Smith Rowe, who continued his run and scored a second goal for Arsenal. The 2–0 victory moved Arsenal into the top four for the first time all season.[104][105]  
  With a rise in positive COVID-19 test results forcing the postponement of the other five matches scheduled for 18 December, Arsenal's match away to an injury-stricken Leeds United at Elland Road was the only remaining Premier League fixture that day.[106] In the 16th minute, after Alexandre Lacazette dispossessed Adam Forshaw in the box, Gabriel Martinelli recovered the loose ball and fired it in first time for the opening goal; this goal was Arsenal's 7,000th scored in the top flight of English football.[107][108] Twelve minutes later, Granit Xhaka intercepted a pass from Stuart Dallas intended for Mateusz Klich near midfield and played a through pass to Martinelli, who scored to double Arsenal's lead. Three minutes from halftime, Bukayo Saka scored the third goal after his shot deflected off Klich's foot and past Illan Meslier. Notably, Arsenal's 11 shots on target in the first half were the most in the first half of all Premier League matches since the 2003–04 season (also the season of the Invincibles), when Opta began recording such statistics. After Ben White's tackle on Joe Gelhardt, referee Andre Marriner awarded Leeds a penalty, which Raphinha converted in the 75th minute. Substitute Emile Smith Rowe capped off the match by finishing off a pass from Martin Ødegaard to give Arsenal a 4–1 win.[109][110]  
  On 21 December, Arsenal hosted League One side Sunderland in the EFL Cup quarter-finals, with Nicolas Pépé making his 100th appearance for Arsenal. Cédric's corner in the 17th minute was headed towards goal by Rob Holding, only for Lee Burge to parry the ball into the path of Eddie Nketiah, who continued his three-match run of scoring in the EFL Cup and put in the tap-in from close range. In the 27th minute, Pépé received a cutback from Cédric and fired a shot, which was deflected by Callum Doyle into the roof of the net to double Arsenal's lead. However, Sunderland scored four minutes later, as Nathan Broadhead received a through pass from Elliot Embleton and lifted the ball over an onrushing Bernd Leno into the goal. Four minutes into the second half, Nketiah scored his second goal, stepping in front of Doyle to redirect a low cross from Nuno Tavares. In the 58th minute, Nketiah completed his hat trick, beating Tom Flanagan to a pass from Pépé and scoring with a backheel finish. In second half stoppage time, Pépé once again provided the assist, this time to Charlie Patino, who had been substituted on ten minutes prior for his senior team debut and slid the ball in past Burge. The 5–1 result advanced Arsenal to the semi-finals for the first time since the 2017–18 edition, while Nketiah's hat trick made him the joint top goalscorer with Brentford's Marcus Forss on five goals.[111][112]  
  Arsenal then headed to Carrow Road for a Boxing Day match against Norwich City. Bukayo Saka scored the opening goal in the sixth minute after receiving a pass from Martin Ødegaard and shooting through the legs of Brandon Williams. Arsenal's second goal was also assisted by Ødegaard, as he found Kieran Tierney on the left flank, who ran into the box and fired a low shot across goal just before halftime. In the 67th minute, Saka scored again after receiving a pass from Alexandre Lacazette and beating Williams one-on-one before shooting from the edge of the box. Ozan Kabak tripped Lacazette as the latter was receiving a pass from Emile Smith Rowe, prompting referee Graham Scott to award Arsenal a penalty in the 84th minute, which Lacazette then converted. In second half stoppage time, substitute Nicolas Pépé's pass across the box deflected off Kabak to Smith Rowe, who finished at the back post for his third goal in as many matches, all of which have come as a substitute. The 5–0 win meant that Arsenal ended the year on a four-match win streak.[113][114]  
  Arsenal's performances in December led to several Premier League monthly award nominations. Alexandre Lacazette's goal to finish off a 'flowing' team move against Southampton was nominated for Goal of the Month,[115][116] while manager Mikel Arteta was nominated for Manager of the Month.[117] Additionally, both Martin Ødegaard and Gabriel Martinelli were nominated for Player of the Month.[118] Though the latter two awards were ultimately won by Manchester City's Pep Guardiola and Raheem Sterling, respectively,[119][120] Lacazette's goal was named the Goal of the Month.[116][121]  
  In the first Premier League fixture of 2022, Arsenal hosted Manchester City at the Emirates Stadium on New Year's Day. Dutch assistant manager Albert Stuivenberg filled in for manager Mikel Arteta, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on 29 December and was forced to miss the match.[122][123] An Arsenal penalty call in the 10th minute after contact between Martin Ødegaard and Ederson was dismissed by VAR. However, Arsenal took the lead after the half-hour mark when Kieran Tierney found Bukayo Saka in the box, who slotted the ball in as Alexandre Lacazette screened off Nathan Aké. Manchester City equalized when Riyad Mahrez converted a 57th-minute penalty, which had been awarded by referee Stuart Attwell after he deemed Granit Xhaka to have committed a foul on Bernardo Silva. Immediately following the restart, Aké made a goal line clearance on Aymeric Laporte's header to prevent the own goal before Gabriel Martinelli missed the follow-up just wide of the top corner. Less than a minute later, Attwell sent off Gabriel after the latter picked up a second yellow card for a foul on Gabriel Jesus; Attwell had shown him his first yellow card following the Mahrez penalty for dissent. With Manchester City having the man advantage, Rodri scored the winning goal in stoppage time after Laporte's initial shot had been blocked by Ben White, giving the visitors a 2–1 win.[124][125]  
  On 5 January, it was announced that the first leg of the EFL Cup semi-finals against Liverpool, which was to be held the following day, was postponed to 13 January due to a COVID-19 outbreak among Liverpool's players and staff, with the second leg to be played a week later. This also led a change in the home team order, with Liverpool now hosting the first leg and Arsenal hosting the second leg.[126]  
  Ahead of the FA Cup third-round match against EFL Championship club Nottingham Forest on 9 January, the club announced the release of a one-off, all-white fourth kit that would be worn during the match. The kit, which is not commercially available and will be "awarded to individuals who are making a positive difference in the community," is part of a campaign to raise awareness about knife crime and youth violence, which contributed to the highest number of teenage murders in a year in London since records began.[128][129]  
  Arsenal's FA Cup campaign ended after just one match, as Nottingham Forest won 1–0 at the City Ground due to an 83rd-minute goal from Lewis Grabban, who finished a cross from Ryan Yates. Meanwhile, Arsenal struggled offensively all game and registered no shots on target despite dominating the time of possession. Additionally, in a rare first-half, non-injury substitution, manager Mikel Arteta sent on Kieran Tierney in place of a 'struggling' Nuno Tavares in the 35th minute.[131] This was the first time since the 2017–18 edition that Arsenal were knocked out in the third round, which also came at the hands of Nottingham Forest.[132]  
  Four days later, Arsenal travelled to Anfield for the first leg of the EFL Cup semi-finals against Liverpool. An injury to Cédric early in the match forced a substitution in the 11th minute, with Calum Chambers replacing him at right-back. Moments later, Arsenal nearly conceded the opening goal, as Jordan Henderson charged down and blocked a long kick from Aaron Ramsdale, but the deflection went wide of the open goal and resulted in a Liverpool corner. In the 24th minute, Granit Xhaka was sent off by referee Michael Oliver for a high boot and a denial of a clear goal-scoring opportunity, as the former attempted to intercept a long pass from Andrew Robertson to Diogo Jota. The red card meant that Xhaka would miss Arsenal's next two matches. It also prompted Arteta to make another early substitution, with centre-back Rob Holding replacing striker Eddie Nketiah to provide defensive cover. Despite playing with only 10 players for the rest of the match, Arsenal held Liverpool to a 0–0 draw, with Takumi Minamino shooting over an open goal in the closing minutes and missing Liverpool's other best scoring chance.[133][134]  
  On 15 January, the Premier League accepted Arsenal's request to postpone the match against Tottenham Hotspur, which would have been held the following day, due to an insufficient amount of available players in the Arsenal squad as a result of COVID-19, existing and recent injuries, and players away with their countries at the Africa Cup of Nations.[135]  
  That same day, in the second leg of the EFL Cup semi-finals, Arsenal were knocked out of the competition at home 2–0 by Liverpool, thanks to a brace from Diogo Jota. Both sides came close to scoring early in the match, with Alexandre Lacazette's fifth-minute free kick hitting the crossbar and Joël Matip's tap-in disallowed for offside minutes later, before Jota scored the opener in the 17th minute. After Liverpool came close with Ibrahima Konaté's header from a Trent Alexander-Arnold corner hitting the post early in the second half, they finally scored a second goal as Jota received a long pass from Alexander-Arnold and chipped the ball over an onrushing Aaron Ramsdale. To make matters worse for Arsenal, 74th-minute substitute Thomas Partey, who had just returned from international duty after Ghana's early elimination from the Africa Cup of Nations, received a second yellow card for a late tackle on Fabinho and was sent off in the closing minutes of the game, having received his first yellow card for a foul on Neco Williams minutes earlier.[138][139]  
  Arsenal returned to Premier League competition on 23 January at home against Burnley. However, despite Arsenal having three times as much possession as Burnley and dominating shots and corners, neither team was able to break the deadlock and the match finished 0–0, which ended Arsenal's month-long spell in fourth place and dropped them to sixth.[140][141]  
  The club continued their exodus of players in the winter transfer window, as Calum Chambers joined fellow Premier League club Aston Villa on a permanent transfer announced on 27 January.[142]  
  On the final day of that transfer window, Arsenal made their first and only first-team acquisition, signing 23-year-old American centre-back Auston Trusty from Major League Soccer club Colorado Rapids, although Trusty will stay with the Rapids on loan until 17 July 2022.[143] The following day, it was announced that former captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who had not been selected for any match squads since the loss to Everton in early December, had left the club by mutual consent,[144] with it being announced later that he had joined La Liga club Barcelona.[145]  
  After the international break, Arsenal travelled to Molineux to face Wolverhampton Wanderers on 10 February. In the 25th minute, after a half-clearance from a Gabriel Martinelli corner, both Alexandre Lacazette and José Sá went for the ball and missed, with Gabriel scoring the tap-in for the game's only goal. In the 69th minute, referee Michael Oliver showed Martinelli two yellow cards in quick succession, amounting to a red card and dismissal; the first was for shoving Daniel Podence and preventing a quick throw-in, and the second was for chasing him down and fouling him again. Despite being reduced to 10 players, Arsenal maintained their lead and won 1–0.[146][147]  
  On 19 February, Arsenal hosted Brentford, to whom they had lost the season opener. Neither club scored in the first half, but three minutes into the second half, Emile Smith Rowe broke the deadlock with his low curling shot past David Raya. In the 79th minute, Arsenal were on the break, and Bukayo Saka finished off a pass from Thomas Partey with a curling strike that ricocheted in off the far post. However, Brentford scoring a consolation goal in stoppage time, with a scramble in the box following a Saman Ghoddos free kick resulting in Christian Norgaard's close-range strike, which was confirmed after a VAR check for offside. There was not enough time for Brentford to seek an equalising goal, so Arsenal won 2–1.[148][149]  
  Arsenal continued to make up their games in hand and played the reverse fixture against Wolverhampton Wanderers at home on 25 February; the match had originally been scheduled for 28 December 2021 but was postponed due to a lack of available players in the Wolves squad as a result of numerous injuries and positive COVID-19 test results.[150] Wolves scored first, with Hwang Hee-chan intercepting a back pass from Gabriel to Aaron Ramsdale and scoring in the 10th minute. They maintained their lead for most of the match, until Arsenal equalised in the 82nd minute. Substitute Eddie Nketiah received Martin Ødegaard's lofted pass and cut it back for fellow substitute Nicolas Pépé, who spun around and scored with his stronger left foot. Five minutes into stoppage time, Alexandre Lacazette received a pass from Pépé and shot towards goal, with the strike being diverted into the top corner off José Sá's glove, giving Arsenal another 2–1 win.[151][152]  
  Arsenal went to Vicarage Road on 6 March to face Watford. Less than 20 seconds into the match, Emmanuel Dennis scored but the goal was ruled offside. In the fifth minute, Martin Ødegaard slotted the ball past Ben Foster after receiving a pass from Bukayo Saka. Watford levelled the score six minutes later with a bicycle kick from Cucho Hernández. At the half-hour mark, Alexandre Lacazette returned a pass to Saka, who struck into the top corner. In the 52nd minute, Lacazette provided another assist, setting the ball for Gabriel Martinelli's strike. A late goal from Moussa Sissoko reduced Watford's deficit, but Arsenal held on for a 3–2 victory and moved back into the top four.[153][154]  
  On 14 March, Arsenal faced Leicester City at home. The Gunners opened the scoring just after the tenth minute. A corner by Gabriel Martinelli was met by the head of Thomas Partey at the near-post. Partey could have had a brace just seven minutes later, when a deflected shot by Granit Xhaka dropped to the Ghanaian, who saw his shot from the edge of the box rattle off the Leicester upright. Leicester nearly found an equaliser in the 34th minute, when a cross by Marc Albrighton was headed towards goal by Barnes. The header from just outside the six-yard box was met by a strong right palm from goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale. In the 54th minute, Arsenal had a penalty shout when Thomas Partey's header was glanced by the hand of defender Çağlar Söyüncü. After a lengthy VAR check, referee Anthony Taylor awarded the Gunners a penalty. The resulting spot-kick was converted by Alexandre Lacazette. Thereby doubling Arsenal's lead in the 59th minute and also marking Alexandre Lacazette's 200th senior career goal. The result brought Arsenal back into fourth, leapfrogging Manchester United.[155]  
  Arsenal welcomed Liverpool to the Emirates Stadium on 17 March. The Gunner's fought valiantly in the first half, limiting Liverpool's dominant attacking players to speculative half-chances. However, failing to capitalize on their own chances. The momentum swung Liverpool's way in the second-half, with Sadio Mané netting a goal which was immediately chalked off for offside within two minutes of the half. Arsenal could have broken the deadlock themselves, when Martin Ødegaard's shot was saved by goalkeeper Alisson following a misplaced back-pass by Thiago. The opener was finally scored by Diogo Jota in the 54th minute, with his shot beating Aaron Ramsdale at the near-post following a through-ball by Thiago. Liverpool would go on to double their lead eight minutes later, when Roberto Firmino tapped-in from close range via a cross by Andrew Robertson.[156]  
  Arsenal kicked off the month of April with an away trip to Selhurst Park to face Crystal Palace on 4 April. Goals from Jean-Philippe Mateta and Jordan Ayew before half-time followed by a Wilfried Zaha penalty condemned Arsenal to a 3–0 defeat.[157] Next, Arsenal hosted Brighton on 9 April. Brighton ended up with a two-goal lead thanks to goals from Leandro Trossard and Enock Mwepu. An 89th-minute goal from Martin Ødergaard came too late, as Arsenal ended up losing 1–2 to the visitors.[158] Arsenal's losing streak increased to three consecutive matches after losing 1–0 to Southampton at St Mary's Stadium on 16 April, with the contest's sole goal coming from Jan Bednarek in the 44th minute.[159] Arsenal finally ended their losing streak on 20 April with a 4–2 away win at Stamford Bridge against Chelsea; Arsenal's goals came via a brace from Eddie Nketiah, and one each from Emile Smith Rowe and Bukayo Saka.[160] Arsenal finished off the month by facing Manchester United at home on 23 April. An early goal from Tavares and a 31st-minute penalty conversion by Saka gave Arsenal a quick two goal lead, before Cristiano Ronaldo put United back in the game in the 34th minute. Granit Xhaka scored in the 70th minute to seal a 3–1 win for Arsenal to end April with back-to-back victories.[161]  
  Arsenal started the final month of the season traveling to the London Stadium to face West Ham United on 1 May. Rob Holding and Gabriel scored for Arsenal either side of a West Ham equaliser from Jarrod Bowen to secure a 2–1 victory for the Gunners, which extended their win streak to three.[162] Next, Arsenal hosted Leeds United on 8 May. Eddie Nketiah scored a brace within 10 minutes, and despite a 66th-minute goal from Diego Llorente, Arsenal rode on Nketiah's early brace for a 2–1 win, extending their win streak to four matches. Arsenal then faced Spurs at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on 12 May. Arsenal's winning streak was snapped, as a brace from Harry Kane and a goal from Son Heung-min gave Tottenham a 3–0 win.[163] Hoping to bounce back, Arsenal visited St James' Park on 16 May to face Newcastle United. Both of the match's goals would come in the second half, as a 56th-minute opener from Callum Wilson followed by an 85th-minute strike by Bruno Guimarães gave Newcastle a 2–0 victory and saw Arsenal fall below Tottenham in the table on the penultimate matchday.[164] Arsenal's final match of the season was at home against Everton. Going into the match, Arsenal not only had to win, but Spurs also had to lose for Arsenal to qualify for next season's Champions League. Arsenal beat Everton in a 5–1 rout, but due to Spurs also winning their match, the Gunners qualified for the Europa League instead, finishing the season in fifth place with 69 points.[165]  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as has been defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  ^ On 17 January 2022, Iliev's contract was terminated by mutual consent.[206]  
  ^ Trusty signed from the Colorado Rapids but will stay with the MLS club on loan until 17 July 2022.[143]  
  On 16 April 2021, Arsenal announced that they would participate in a pre-season fixture against defending Scottish Professional Football League champions Rangers on 17 July at the Ibrox Stadium, in order to celebrate Rangers' 150th anniversary.[239] This forms part of a training camp in Scotland, with another friendly being played against Hibernian four days earlier.[240]  
  Arsenal confirmed they will travel to the United States to compete in the seventh edition of the Florida Cup in Orlando, Florida.[241] On July 20, Arsenal withdrew from the Cup, citing "a small number of positive COVID tests."[20]  
  Note: Match cancelled due to Arsenal withdrawing from Florida Cup due to positive COVID tests.[242]  
  Note: Match cancelled due to Arsenal withdrawing from Florida Cup due to positive COVID-19 tests.[242]  
  Source: Premier League Rules for classification: 1) Points; 2) Goal difference; 3) Goals scored; 4) If the champions, relegated teams or qualified teams for UEFA competitions cannot be determined by rules 1 to 3, rules 4.1 to 4.3 are applied – 4.1) Points gained in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.2) Away goals scored in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.3) Play-offs[244] Notes:  
  ^ a b Since the winners of the 2021–22 FA Cup and the 2021–22 EFL Cup, Liverpool, qualified for the Champions League, the spot given to the FA Cup winners (Europa League group stage) was passed to the sixth-placed team and the spot given to the League Cup winners (Europa Conference League play-off round) was passed to the seventh-placed team.[243]  
  Note: The match, originally scheduled for 28 December 2021, was postponed due to an insufficient amount of available players in the Wolves squad as a result of numerous injuries and positive COVID-19 test results.[150]  
  Note: The match, originally scheduled for 16 January, was postponed due to an insufficient amount of available players in the Arsenal squad as a result of COVID-19, existing and recent injuries, and players away with their countries at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations.[135]  
  Note: The match was originally scheduled for 6 January 2022 but was postponed due to a COVID-19 outbreak among Liverpool's players and staff.[126]  
  Each club Player of the Month and Goal of the Month award winner was chosen via open-access polls on the club's official website. While the Player of the Month awards only include the men's senior team, the Goal of the Month awards include contenders from both the men's and women's teams.  
  ^ James, Josh (18 June 2013). "All-time Arsenal". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 22 June 2023. Retrieved 22 June 2023.  
  ^ "Sead Kolašinac est olympien" [Sead Kolašinac is an Olympian] (in French). Olympique de Marseille. 18 January 2022. Retrieved 18 January 2022.  
  About Arsenal  
  Arsenal live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Arsenal next match  
  Arsenal will play the next match against Manchester City on Mar 31, 2024, 3:30:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Manchester City vs Arsenal live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Arsenal matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Arsenal previous match  
  Arsenal fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Arsenal scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Arsenal performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Arsenal matches.  
  Current Arsenal players  
  Forward: Gabriel Jesus Midfielder: Declan Rice, Emile Smith Rowe, Jakub Kiwior Defender: Gabriel Magalhães, Benjamin White, Jurriën Timber Goalkeeper: Aaron Ramsdale, David Raya Unknown: Bukayo Saka, Kai Havertz, Martin Ødegaard, Gabriel Martinelli, Thomas Partey, Mohamed Elneny, Jorginho, Leandro Trossard, Oleksandr Zinchenko, William Saliba, Edward Nketiah, Takehiro Tomiyasu, Fábio Vieira, Reiss Nelson, Cédric Soares, Karl Hein  
  The current Arsenal roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Arsenal top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  The height of the column represents match difficulty at the time, based on odds.  
  About Arsenal  
  Arsenal live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Arsenal next match  
  Arsenal will play the next match against Manchester City on Mar 31, 2024, 3:30:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Manchester City vs Arsenal live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Arsenal matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Arsenal previous match  
  Arsenal fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Arsenal scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Arsenal performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Arsenal matches.  
  Current Arsenal players  
  Forward: Gabriel Jesus Midfielder: Declan Rice, Emile Smith Rowe, Jakub Kiwior Defender: Gabriel Magalhães, Benjamin White, Jurriën Timber Goalkeeper: Aaron Ramsdale, David Raya Unknown: Bukayo Saka, Kai Havertz, Martin Ødegaard, Gabriel Martinelli, Thomas Partey, Mohamed Elneny, Jorginho, Leandro Trossard, Oleksandr Zinchenko, William Saliba, Edward Nketiah, Takehiro Tomiyasu, Fábio Vieira, Reiss Nelson, Cédric Soares, Karl Hein  
  The current Arsenal roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Arsenal top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  Live scores service at Sofascore livescore offers sports live scores, results and tables. Follow your favourite teams right here live! Live score on Sofascore.com livescore is automatically updated and you don't need to refresh it manually. With adding games you want to follow in "My games" following your matches livescores, results and statistics will be even more simple.  
  Accessibility links  
  Arsenal 6-0 Lens: Gunners win Champions League group with first-half rout  
  By Emma SmithBBC Sport  
  Last updated on 29 November 202329 November 2023.From the section European Football674  
  Arsenal reached the Champions League knockouts as group winners by thumping Lens at Emirates Stadium.  
  The Gunners scored five in a phenomenal first-half display as they reach the last 16 in their first appearance in the competition for seven years.  
  Kai Havertz, Gabriel Jesus, Bukayo Saka, Gabriel Martinelli and Martin Odegaard all scored in the first half, before Jorginho added a late penalty.  
  Arsenal progress from Group B alongside PSV Eindhoven, with Lens out.  
  "I didn't even dream like this," Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said. "The team from the beginning showed a lot of aggression and determination to go for the game.  
  "Everything happened in the right way in the first 30 minutes. That was really helpful to win the game."  
  Havertz, brought into the starting XI after scoring the winner against Brentford at the weekend, opened the scoring on 13 minutes when Lens failed to clear a looping ball into the box. Jesus nodded across goal and Havertz showed a striker's instinct to finish from close range ahead of goalkeeper Brice Samba.  
  "Scoring goals, playing well, participating in wins - those are positive attributes," Arteta said of Havertz's performance. "You saw the reception of his team-mates and the crowd being with him, singing his name. He's a tremendous player."  
  Jesus turned scorer to slot the second past Samba from 15 yards, sweeping home after being set up by Saka's powerful run between defenders from the right.  
  Arsenal's attacking unit was in full flow, illustrated by Saka taking his turn to move from provider to scorer just two minutes and 20 seconds later, steering the ball home after Samba saved from Martinelli.  
  Brazil winger Martinelli would not be denied and scored the best of the lot on 27 minutes, finding the far bottom corner after cutting inside from the left.  
  The fifth came in first-half stoppage time, Odegaard perfectly timing a volley from 12 yards following Takehiro Tomiyasu's excellent cross.  
  Arsenal are the first side in Champions League history to have five different scorers in the first half of a match.  
  A more sedate second half followed, before Jorginho added a sixth from the spot following a handball by Abduqodir Khusanov.  
  Irresistible Arsenal power into last 16  
  It had appeared, around half an hour before kick-off, that Arsenal would progress to the last 16 without kicking a ball - only for PSV's remarkable comeback at Sevilla to force them to earn their knockout place on the field.  
  Mikel Arteta's side started this match as if annoyed at the inconvenience of having to do the job themselves, and wanting to get it done as swiftly as possible.  
  Through the smoke from pyrotechnics smuggled in by Lens fans, Arsenal were irresistible in the first half and particularly when scoring three in seven minutes.  
  They also played like they had a score to settle with Lens, a team they had not beaten in three previous Champions League games including the reverse fixture in Group B, which the French side won 2-1.  
  "Defeats give you a lot of things to think about and take the learnings from," Arteta said. "Credit to them, they are a really good side who are extremely well coached and make life very difficult for you but today we were very effective."  
  Saka, on the fifth anniversary of his senior Arsenal debut, was particularly redoubtable despite being frequently fouled.  
  His assist for the second goal was his fourth in five Champions League games. No Arsenal player has previously set up more than three in a single campaign.  
  The early onslaught appeared to put the record Champions League victory margin under threat - set by Liverpool and Real Madrid with 8-0 victories over Besiktas and Malmo respectively - however Lens avoided that indignity and will still reach the Europa League if they avoid defeat to Sevilla on 12 December.  
  Analysis - 'Really ruthless, really clinical'  
  Former Premier League striker Chris Sutton, speaking on BBC 5 Live  
  An outstanding display from Mikel Arteta's team. They started the game strongly and got the first goal, then went from strength to strength. They eased off in the second half but it's job done.  
  They have so many talented players. Martinelli and Saka were helped by some really weak defending from Lens, but Arsenal were really ruthless, really clinical. Odegaard missed a couple of games, his importance to the team in the final third, his awareness, his vision, his ability to slide a ball. You know what you are going to get from Jesus in terms of tenacity but he took his goal well. They look like a really well-balanced team.  
  Arteta has set very high standards at Arsenal. They are now playing where the stakes are really high because they want to challenge Manchester City for the Premier League, which they did last season but they fell away. In the Champions League they want to show they can compete and go all the way.  
  How do they go about that? How are they going to win the Champions League? By maintaining that level all the way through, which isn't going to be easy.  
  Live Text  
  Post update  
  Full Time  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Foul by Eddie Nketiah (Arsenal).  
  90'+1'  
  Post update  
  Attempt blocked. Elye Wahi (Lens) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked. Assisted by Neil El Aynaoui.  
  88'  
  Post update  
  Elye Wahi (Lens) wins a free kick on the left wing.  
  88'  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Foul by Kai Havertz (Arsenal).  
  86'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 6, Lens 0. Jorginho (Arsenal) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.  
  85'  
  Post update  
  VAR Decision: Penalty Arsenal.  
  83'  
  Post update  
  Penalty conceded by Abduqodir Khusanov (Lens) with a hand ball in the penalty area.  
  82'  
  Substitution  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Ben White (Arsenal) header from the right side of the six yard box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Martin Ødegaard with a cross following a corner.  
  Post update  
  Corner, Arsenal. Conceded by Abduqodir Khusanov.  
  79'  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by El Cucuy, at 21:59 29 Nov 2023El Cucuy  
  21:59 29 Nov 2023  
  Best ever 45 minutes by an English team ever in the competition (5-0). COYG. We can rest our first team for the final game.  
  208  
  40  
  D  
  Reply posted by Dys, at 22:03 29 Nov 2023Dys  
  22:03 29 Nov 2023  
  to El Cucuy  
  "  
  Best ever 45 minutes by an English team ever in the competition (5-0). COYG. We can rest our first team for the final game.  
  "  
  Dys replied:  
  Well except for every 45 minutes played by an English team while winning a final. But yeah if a group game against a farmer's league team works for you then enjoy.  
  86  
  403  
  More replies (61)  
  M  
  Comment posted by Mate, at 22:00 29 Nov 2023Mate  
  22:00 29 Nov 2023  
  Top of our group, top the premier league, Havertz finding some form, what a great Christmas we are in for  
  188  
  21  
  D  
  Reply posted by Dys, at 22:01 29 Nov 2023Dys  
  22:01 29 Nov 2023  
  to Mate  
  "  
  Top of our group, top the premier league, Havertz finding some form, what a great Christmas we are in for  
  "  
  Dys replied:  
  You know what happens after the traditional Christmas festivities for Arsenal don't you? Yup... unlucky.  
  38  
  214  
  More replies (26)  
  K  
  Comment posted by kevinjg77, at 22:02 29 Nov 2023kevinjg77  
  Comment posted by Galaxy, at 22:01 29 Nov 2023Galaxy  
  Reply posted by Pope, at 22:09 29 Nov 2023Pope  
  "  
  Martinelli was immense, Well played Arsenal  
  6-0 against a farmers wife's league and all you gunners think you're the best. Well here's news for you. You're NOT!  
  34  
  321  
  More replies (31)  
  D  
  Comment posted by D1708727347484, at 22:17 29 Nov 2023D1708727347484  
  22:17 29 Nov 2023  
  Not a Gunner myself but that was one heck of a turning over. Given the heavy work all the PL "Superstars" made of it last night this was more like it. Congratulations. Top of the Group.  
  133  
  3  
  P  
  Comment posted by Phemoy, at 22:07 29 Nov 2023Phemoy  
  22:07 29 Nov 2023  
  Six different goalscorers, 4 of them buys from top clubs like City, Chelsea, Real Madrid, and a homegrown world class talent in Saka plus Martinelli who could qualify as one of our own! Add Declan UNBELIEVABLE Rice, Two masterful centre backs, outstanding full backs...what a team! Best team since the Invincibles! The feel good days are definitely here to stay!!  
  138  
  8  
  P  
  Reply posted by psychoarsenalysis, at 22:20 29 Nov 2023psychoarsenalysis  
  22:20 29 Nov 2023  
  to Phemoy  
  "  
  Six different goalscorers, 4 of them buys from top clubs like City, Chelsea, Real Madrid, and a homegrown world class talent in Saka plus Martinelli who could qualify as one of our own! Add Declan UNBELIEVABLE Rice, Two masterful centre backs, outstanding full backs...what a team! Best team since the Invincibles!The feel good days are definitely here to stay!!  
  "  
  psychoarsenalysis replied:  
  Best team since the invincibles, that’s beyond debate. No more top heavy attack, leaky defence.  
  79  
  3  
  More replies (10)  
  F  
  Comment posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 21:57 29 Nov 2023Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  21:57 29 Nov 2023  
  I know it was only Lens, still a statement 1st half from the Gunners. Well done on setting the record for the most goals scored in an half in CL history.  
  137  
  8  
  M  
  Reply posted by margaret, at 22:05 29 Nov 2023margaret  
  22:05 29 Nov 2023  
  to Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  "  
  I know it was only Lens, still a statement 1st half from the Gunners. Well done on setting the record for the most goals scored in an half in CL history.  
  8  
  Comment posted by see you next wednesday, at 22:01 29 Nov 2023see you next wednesday  
  22:01 29 Nov 2023  
  Lens were terrible, but Arsenal were breathtaking  
  There's your headline. No jealousy tonight, please.  
  Glad to see Havertz getting that average Chelsea funk out of his system - at last!  
  120  
  6  
  L  
  Reply posted by liverpool supporter right here, at 22:05 29 Nov 2023liverpool supporter right here  
  22:05 29 Nov 2023  
  to see you next wednesday  
  "  
  Lens were terrible, but Arsenal were breathtakingThere's your headline. No jealousy tonight, please.Glad to see Havertz getting that average Chelsea funk out of his system - at last!  
  "  
  liverpool supporter right here replied:  
  Contact Lens to find out if Havertz told them to let him score tonight😆  
  7  
  Reply posted by LionelRhodes, at 22:04 29 Nov 2023LionelRhodes  
  4  
  H  
  Comment posted by How on Earth, at 22:04 29 Nov 2023How on Earth  
  22:04 29 Nov 2023  
  6-0 let’s wait for the comments from the teams in whose head we live , must be eating away at them this year 😂😂😂😂  
  80  
  13  
  D  
  Reply posted by diplodocus, at 22:29 29 Nov 2023diplodocus  
  22:29 29 Nov 2023  
  to How on Earth  
  "  
  6-0 let’s wait for the comments from the teams in whose head we live , must be eating away at them this year 😂😂😂😂  
  10  
  Comment posted by ViceCompany, at 21:58 29 Nov 2023ViceCompany  
  21:58 29 Nov 2023  
  Arsenal have been very good and not reached their next level yet. The best is yet to come for the Gunners and more Champions League nights for them.  
  69  
  7  
  D  
  Comment posted by D1703020689244, at 21:57 29 Nov 2023D1703020689244  
  Reply posted by TheNightmanCometh, at 22:03 29 Nov 2023TheNightmanCometh  
  Comment posted by Winners And Sinners, at 21:57 29 Nov 2023Winners And Sinners  
  21:57 29 Nov 2023  
  Wow what a first half from Arsenal! Arsenal clearly didn’t want to show up Lens, so they didn’t go for the greatest CL win record in the second half.  
  43  
  3  
  A  
  Comment posted by Ashburton Grove, at 21:59 29 Nov 2023Ashburton Grove  
  Comment posted by NB22, at 21:57 29 Nov 2023NB22  
  Reply posted by The Spin Doctor, at 22:12 29 Nov 2023The Spin Doctor  
  22:12 29 Nov 2023  
  to NB22  
  "  
  Great performance, with some great goals.Winning the group as well.Brilliant so far in the CL  
  "  
  The Spin Doctor replied:  
  Arsenal totally crushed their group, however it will only get harder from here on out. Hope Arsenal can perform like this against the Europe's giants.  
  31  
  2  
  More replies (8)  
  P  
  Comment posted by Prudhoe Lad, at 22:07 29 Nov 2023Prudhoe Lad  
  22:07 29 Nov 2023  
  Amazing scoreline, well done Arsenal. Like to see all English clubs doing well in Europe. Unlike the Arsenal trolls who hijacked Newcastle's HYS yesterday with their hate and who am sure aren't representative of the broader grown-up fan base. Newcastle fan.  
  7  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (6)  
  Reply posted by David Buchanan , at 22:38 29 Nov 2023David Buchanan  
  Comment posted by David, at 21:59 29 Nov 2023David  
  21:59 29 Nov 2023  
  Bitterly disappointed gunners how could we only score 6! Just not good enough Arteta has to go ( just kidding absolutely delighted about the win tonight)  
  32  
  2  
  D  
  Reply posted by diplodocus, at 22:30 29 Nov 2023diplodocus  
  22:30 29 Nov 2023  
  to David  
  "  
  Bitterly disappointed gunners how could we only score 6! Just not good enough Arteta has to go ( just kidding absolutely delighted about the win tonight)  
  "  
  diplodocus replied:  
  You all were saying Arteta out 18 months ago. wots changed?  
  Accessibility links  
  TUE 12 Mar 2024Champions League - Round of 16 - 2nd Leg  
  ArsenalArsenal1FC PortoFC Porto0  
  Arsenal win 4-2 on penalties  
  Arsenal 1-0 Porto (Agg: 1-1, Arsenal win 4-2 on penalties): Gunners reach Champions League quarter-finals  
  By Phil McNultyChief football writer at Emirates Stadium  
  Last updated on 12 March 202412 March 2024.From the section European Football1584  
  Arsenal reached the Champions League quarter-finals for the first time since 2010 after beating Porto in a penalty shootout following a night of tension at Emirates Stadium.  
  The Gunners went into this last-16 second leg 1-0 down but drew level when Leandro Trossard put them ahead on the night four minutes before the interval with a smooth finish following brilliant work by captain Martin Odegaard.  
  A scrappy, fractious encounter failed to yield a winner even after extra time and it was Arsenal who held their nerve to go through to the last eight.  
  Odegaard, Kai Havertz, Bukayo Saka and Declan Rice were all on target for Arsenal as David Raya saved from Wendell and Galeno to seal victory for Mikel Arteta's side amid scenes of wild celebration.  
  Arsenal pass Porto test  
  Arsenal only trailed to Galeno's last-gasp goal from the first game in Portugal, but it quickly became clear they would need to pass a stern test of character, temperament and patience against Sergio Conceicao's streetwise, experienced team.  
  Porto, defensively marshalled and organised by the evergreen 41-year-old Pepe, never allowed Arsenal to play with their usual fluency and Trossard's goal, created after superb footwork and a pass of precision from Odegaard, was a rare moment of weakness from the visitors' defence.  
  Arsenal probed but Porto still posed a threat, Raya saving well from Evanilson and Francisco Conceicao.  
  Odegaard thought he had settled Arsenal's nerves and put them through without the need for extra time with a second half strike. However, it was ruled out when Havertz was judged to have pulled back Pepe.  
  The anxiety and anger even reached the technical area, with Porto coach Conceicao an agitated, animated figure throughout, and it threatened to boil over with frustration after their fate was sealed by Raya's flying save in a chaotic conclusion.  
  At the end of a nervous night, it was Arsenal who were celebrating with Arteta finally ending his European curse at home, having managed five Europa League ties at Emirates Stadium without winning any.  
  It also felt like a psychological barrier had been crossed by the Gunners after losing at the last-16 stage in each of their past seven appearances in the Champions League.  
  And having reached the last eight, Arsenal might just feel they have learned enough from this tough experience to take their journey deeper into the competition.  
  Gunners set up dream season finale  
  Arsenal have had the ideal few days, breaking that barrier into the last eight of Europe's elite competition while also taking their place at the top of the Premier League.  
  It also means Arsenal have that feeling of momentum to carry forward into the final stage of the season, fighting both in domestic and European competition.  
  Arsenal's next game is the mammoth clash with Premier League champions Manchester City at Etihad Stadium on 31 March and Arteta now has time to take a breath and regather his forces in a position of real strength.  
  Live Text  
  Post update  
  Penalties over  
  Post update  
  Penalty saved. Galeno (FC Porto) right footed shot saved in the bottom right corner.  
  120'+5'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(4), FC Porto 0(2). Declan Rice (Arsenal) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the centre of the goal.  
  120'+5'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(3), FC Porto 0(2). Marko Grujic (FC Porto) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom right corner.  
  120'+4'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(3), FC Porto 0(1). Bukayo Saka (Arsenal) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the bottom left corner.  
  120'+3'  
  Post update  
  Penalty saved. Wendell (FC Porto) left footed shot saved in the bottom right corner.  
  120'+2'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(2), FC Porto 0(1). Kai Havertz (Arsenal) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the bottom right corner.  
  120'+1'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(1), FC Porto 0(1). Pepê Aquino (FC Porto) converts the penalty with a right footed shot to the bottom left corner.  
  120'+1'  
  Post update  
  Goal! Arsenal 1(1), FC Porto 0. Martin Ødegaard (Arsenal) converts the penalty with a left footed shot to the bottom right corner.  
  Penalties in progress  
  Penalty Shootout begins Arsenal 1, FC Porto 0.  
  120'+1'  
  Post update  
  Second Half Extra Time ends, Arsenal 1, FC Porto 0.  
  Reply posted by NB22, at 22:56 12 MarNB22  
  More replies (18)  
  D  
  Comment posted by Dennis O, at 22:55 12 MarDennis O  
  22:55 12 Mar  
  From a spurs fan well done and congrats Arsenal. A really difficult opponent in Porto and you just about did enough.  
  315  
  43  
  M  
  Reply posted by Mate, at 22:57 12 MarMate  
  22:57 12 Mar  
  to Dennis O  
  "  
  From a spurs fan well done and congrats Arsenal. A really difficult opponent in Porto and you just about did enough.  
  57  
  Comment posted by Gary, at 22:56 12 MarGary  
  22:56 12 Mar  
  Saka took that penalty with such confidence. Proud of how far he's come since the Euros  
  266  
  35  
  W  
  Reply posted by Winners And Sinners, at 23:15 12 MarWinners And Sinners  
  23:15 12 Mar  
  to Gary  
  "  
  Saka took that penalty with such confidence. Proud of how far he's come since the Euros  
  54  
  Comment posted by Specialist_in_tailoring, at 22:56 12 MarSpecialist_in_tailoring  
  22:56 12 Mar  
  Tough but through.  
  Nice to see Raya and Ramsdale hugging at the end. One team!!  
  COYG  
  Reply posted by Lillywhite Elite Force, at 23:01 12 MarLillywhite Elite Force  
  23:01 12 Mar  
  to Specialist_in_tailoring  
  "  
  Tough but through.Nice to see Raya and Ramsdale hugging at the end. One team!! COYG  
  66  
  Comment posted by ohound52, at 22:57 12 Marohound52  
  22:57 12 Mar  
  Well done Arsenal. Keep your bottle. Kept clean sheet. Porto played for penalties. Got oenalties. Lost penalties. Bye bye  
  230  
  30  
  C  
  Reply posted by Celts, at 23:01 12 MarCelts  
  23:01 12 Mar  
  to ohound52  
  "  
  Well done Arsenal. Keep your bottle. Kept clean sheet. Porto played for penalties. Got oenalties. Lost penalties. Bye bye  
  "  
  Celts replied:  
  Arsenal had 4 shots on target over the 210 minutes of this tie, LESS THAN PORTO.  
  More replies (31)  
  Comment posted by Taxi for Ozil, at 22:55 12 MarTaxi for Ozil  
  22:55 12 Mar  
  Get in! I’m totally spent after that! This will be good for Raya going forward! Perfect penalties by the lads!  
  139  
  17  
  M  
  Reply posted by Mr and Mrs Banks, at 22:56 12 MarMr and Mrs Banks  
  22:56 12 Mar  
  to Taxi for Ozil  
  "  
  Get in! I’m totally spent after that! This will be good for Raya going forward! Perfect penalties by the lads!  
  119  
  Comment posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 22:55 12 MarFan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  22:55 12 Mar  
  Thought that this would be a straightforward victory for Arsenal tonight, it proved anything but. At least they managed to get through and that is the most important thing.  
  112  
  11  
  N  
  Reply posted by Name, at 23:01 12 MarName  
  23:01 12 Mar  
  to Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  "  
  Thought that this would be a straightforward victory for Arsenal tonight, it proved anything but. At least they managed to get through and that is the most important thing.  
  "  
  Name replied:  
  Porto played brilliantly, especially defensively, stunting this free scoring arsenal team. But apart from a last minute wonder strike I'm the last minute of the first leg, they didn't really test Arsenal. A very close tie overall  
  74  
  14  
  More replies (4)  
  N  
  Comment posted by NOT YOUR USUAL HYS IDIOT, at 23:31 12 MarNOT YOUR USUAL HYS IDIOT  
  23:31 12 Mar  
  From a Manchester City fan, a big well done to the gunners!! In Europe, I ALWAYS want English clubs to win (Yes, even that lot from Salford!!) unless we are playing them!! The bonus for me was that it was against Porto, the most disgraceful, so-called football team in Europe!! Watching all their antics boils my blood, as they seem to be allowed to get away with it? The manager is a disgrace too!!  
  111  
  12  
  S  
  Reply posted by StrangeGrape, at 08:06 13 MarStrangeGrape  
  08:06 13 Mar  
  to NOT YOUR USUAL HYS IDIOT  
  "  
  From a Manchester City fan, a big well done to the gunners!! In Europe, I ALWAYS want English clubs to win (Yes, even that lot from Salford!!) unless we are playing them!!The bonus for me was that it was against Porto, the most disgraceful, so-called football team in Europe!! Watching all their antics boils my blood, as they seem to be allowed to get away with it? The manager is a disgrace too!!  
  7  
  Comment posted by RedAlert, at 22:59 12 MarRedAlert  
  22:59 12 Mar  
  Not an Arsenal fan but so glad you won against anti football Porto. Look at them wanting to fight after they lost!  
  112  
  23  
  W  
  Reply posted by wengy, at 23:26 12 Marwengy  
  23:26 12 Mar  
  to RedAlert  
  "  
  Not an Arsenal fan but so glad you won against anti football Porto.Look at them wanting to fight after they lost!  
  "  
  wengy replied:  
  Portuguese always like that if they lose they're trying to turn the ground to street fighter . Not sporty though .  
  45  
  11  
  More replies (5)  
  M  
  Comment posted by Mr and Mrs Banks, at 22:54 12 MarMr and Mrs Banks  
  Reply posted by soccerteur, at 22:57 12 Marsoccerteur  
  Comment posted by NB22, at 22:54 12 MarNB22  
  22:54 12 Mar  
  Can you get fingernails re-transplanted? Porto brilliantly organised and so hard to beat. However we've gone through and brilliant by Raya.  
  80  
  7  
  A  
  Reply posted by Agree percentage, at 23:25 12 MarAgree percentage  
  23:25 12 Mar  
  to NB22  
  "  
  Can you get fingernails re-transplanted?Porto brilliantly organised and so hard to beat.However we've gone through and brilliant by Raya.  
  "  
  Agree percentage replied:  
  Through to waste more energy on a competition you'll never win. The rest of the league is happy tonight.  
  More replies (12)  
  N  
  Reply posted by Mr and Mrs Banks, at 22:57 12 MarMr and Mrs Banks  
  More replies (11)  
  C  
  Comment posted by CwmTD, at 22:55 12 MarCwmTD  
  22:55 12 Mar  
  Better footballing team one. Can't blame Porto, came to do a job. Gutsy in the end , different feel about this arsenal team.  
  74  
  9  
  L  
  Reply posted by Lets Agree To Disagree, at 23:44 12 MarLets Agree To Disagree  
  23:44 12 Mar  
  to CwmTD  
  "  
  Better footballing team one. Can't blame Porto, came to do a job. Gutsy in the end , different feel about this arsenal team.  
  "  
  Lets Agree To Disagree replied:  
  Arsenal won, but they need to improve if they are to continue, much bigger fish out there to contend with in the coming rounds.  
  Reply posted by Specialist_in_tailoring, at 23:01 12 MarSpecialist_in_tailoring  
  Comment posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 22:54 12 MarFan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  22:54 12 Mar  
  Ah penalties, the great football lottery. It may be your day or it may not be your day. Tonight, fortunately for Arsenal it was.  
  65  
  13  
  L  
  Reply posted by Louis, at 23:00 12 MarLouis  
  23:00 12 Mar  
  to Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  "  
  Ah penalties, the great football lottery. It may be your day or it may not be your day. Tonight, fortunately for Arsenal it was.  
  "  
  Louis replied:  
  It’s not a lottery, it’s a test of skill and nerve which Arsenal passed emphatically!  
  More replies (9)  
  N  
  Comment posted by solo, at 22:56 12 Marsolo  
  Reply posted by The Spin Doctor, at 02:59 13 MarThe Spin Doctor  
  "  
  What a beautiful goal from odegard and trosard  
  Beautiful assist from Ødegaard and a beautiful goal from Trossard you mean. Impossible for two players to share the same goal. 😉  
  Comment posted by bbc, at 22:57 12 Marbbc  
  Reply posted by Winners And Sinners, at 23:16 12 MarWinners And Sinners  
  "  
  COYG yeeeeessss. Onwards and upwards  
  Ok Arsenal fans, suppose (and most likely) Arsenal can either win the Premier League or the Champions League but not both, so which would you prefer?  
  H  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Arsenal  
  Follow ArsenalFollowing  
  Follow Arsenal  
  close panel  
  You are now following Arsenal  
  Latest updates from your Sport topics will appear in My Sport in the BBC Sport App and in a collection on the BBC homepage.  
  Latest updates  
  Match-by-match projections in the title racepublished at 17:55  
  17:55  
  Manchester City are in typically formidable post-Christmas form as they aim for an English top-flight record of four consecutive titles. They have 10 wins from 13 league games since December's 1-0 defeat by Aston Villa.  
  As for Liverpool, the 3-1 loss at Arsenal on 4 February remains their only league defeat in nine games so far in 2024. Jurgen Klopp's team still have a trip to Goodison Park for the Merseyside derby to fit into a busy schedule.  
  On Arsenal, although are top of the table, Simon Gleave, head of analysis at Nielsen's Gracenote says their Euro Club Index simulations have the title battle as a "two-horse race", rating City and Liverpool higher as well as the Gunners having "trickier" fixtures.  
  He said: "Arsenal have six matches left against teams in the Premier League's top half but five of those are away from home. Manchester City and Liverpool also both have six matches remaining against teams in the top half of the Premier League, but four of City's are at home and half of Liverpool's are."  
  Man City v Arsenal: Pick of the statspublished at 16:08  
  16:08  
  Here are the key statistics before Manchester City host Arsenal on Sunday.  
  Manchester City have won 12 of their past 13 Premier League games against Arsenal, though the exception was a 1-0 loss at the Emirates in the reverse fixture this season.  
  Following their win at Emirates Stadium in October, the Gunners are looking to complete their first Premier League double over Manchester City since 2007-08.  
  However, Arsenal have lost each of their past seven league away games against City.  
  Pep Guardiola's side are unbeaten in their past 38 home games in all competitions, since a 2-1 loss against Brentford in November 2022. It iss their second longest run without defeat at home in their history, after a run of 42 between 1919 and 1921.  
  Arsenal have won their past eight top-flight games, scoring 33 goals and conceding just four. The Gunners have had three runs of nine or more consecutive victories within a single season in the competition, with each one coming during title winning campaigns – 10 in 1997-98, 13 in 2001-02 and nine in 2003-04.  
  Manchester City have scored in each of their past 57 home games in all competitions, their longest such scoring streak in club history.  
  Match of the Day Top 10: How good were Podolski and Ozil?published at 14:50  
  14:50  
  Arsenal always seem to have a German in their squad, whether that's Kai Havertz in Mikel Arteta's team or Per Mertesacker captaining Arsene Wenger's side to the FA Cup in 2017.  
  In the latest episode of Match of the Day: Top 10, Alan Shearer and Micah Richards ranked the best Premier League players from Germany and while former Gunners keeper Jens Lehmann received praise, two other ex-Arsenal players seemed to achieve cult status while in north London: Lukas Podolski and Mesut Ozil.  
  Shearer and Richards both ranked Podolski at 10th place.  
  "He was great for Germany and then when he came over here I thought he was going to be brilliant," said Richards.  
  "It didn't quite work out for him. He did score 19 goals but you just wanted a little bit more from him."  
  The pundits differed in opinion when it came to Ozil, however, with Shearer ranking him eighth and Richards placing him second.  
  "He was incredible," said Richards.  
  "When he wanted to be," interjected Shearer. "You can't tell me his attitude was 100% right at all times. Something affected him."  
  "He was a magician," added Richards. "If he was in Manchester City's side...  
  A 50th cap to savourpublished at 09:55  
  09:55  
  Declan Rice marked his 50th international appearance by leading England out at Wembley against Belgium.  
  The 25-year-old is the first Arsenal player to start a match as England captain since Sol Campbell in 2005 against USA, and the first at Wembley since Tony Adams in 2000 against Germany.  
  It is not new territory for Rice who captained hometown club West Ham for the 2022-23 season before moving to Emirates Stadium last summer.  
  Gossip: Arsenal receive Isak boostpublished at 07:55  
  07:55  
  Arsenal appear to have received a boost to their chances of signing Newcastle's Sweden striker Alexander Isak after the 24-year-old admitted "things can happen" in the transfer window. (Mail), external  
  The Gunners are also considering a summer move for Sporting Lisbon and Ivory Coast centre-back Ousmane Diomande, 20, after he stood out during a scouting trip to watch Sweden forward Viktor Gyokeres, 25. (Sun), external  
  Gyokeres has moved ahead of England and Brentford striker Ivan Toney on Arsenal's list of potential new strikers, while West Ham are also interested in the former Coventry striker. (TalkSport), external  
  Sturm Graz want to sign Arsenal and Denmark under-21s striker Mika Biereth, 21, on a permanent deal following a successful loan spell. (Evening Standard), external  
  Finally, the Gunners are open to selling Portuguese full-back Nuno Tavares, 24, this summer, with Lazio interested in his services. (Football London), external  
  The three things Gunners need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 13:00 26 March  
  13:00 26 March  
  Oli Price-Bates Fan writer  
  Arsenal are in scintillating form right now, but for the Gunners to take the next step and win either the Champions League or Premier League this season, they will need three things to happen:  
  Squad to stay fit  
  Key players who have struggled with injuries - like Thomas Partey, Gabriel Jesus, Oleksandr Zinchenko and Takehiro Tomiyasu - will need to stay fit and make contributions over a hectic April and May.  
  Their availability will enable Arsenal to be unpredictable and fresh for opponents.  
  Effective rotation  
  Mikel Arteta has struggled to find the balance between consistency and rotation in the past but, during this busy run-in, he will need to get it right with such a small margin for error.  
  Havertz remain hot  
  Kai Havertz has found some excellent form in 2024 and become an integral part of this Arsenal side.  
  His unique skillset and ability to perform in multiple areas of the pitch provide Arteta with the tactical flexibility and unpredictability that is likely to be needed to win a major trophy.  
  France game time 'hasn't always gone well' for Salibapublished at 11:59 26 March  
  11:59 26 March  
  France manager Didier Deschamps says the "current pecking order doesn't favour" William Saliba, despite the Arsenal defender's good club form.  
  The 23-year-old has played 38 games for the Gunners this season and been key in helping them to the top of the Premier League and the quarter finals of the Champions League.  
  However, he has failed to cement a regular place for his national team, starting six of his 12 appearances, and was left on the bench during the 2-0 home defeat by Germany on Saturday.  
  Dayot Upamecano, Ibrahima Konate, and Benjamin Pavard have been given the nod ahead of Saliba in recent games, as France's preparations for Euro 2024 continue.  
  "Saliba is playing a good season [with Arsenal]," said Deschamps. "But I see him alternating things which I like a bit less. With the French national team, he gets less playing time.  
  "When he has got some, it hasn't always gone well. I'm aware that I put him in a context that wasn't always easy.  
  "The current pecking order doesn't favour him, but he's there. He'll get some game time on Tuesday."  
  France host Chile in a friendly at 20:00 GMT on Tuesday.  
  'My position has changed a lot'published at 11:20 26 March  
  11:20 26 March  
  Declan Rice says he is "enjoying being flexible" in his playing position for both Arsenal and England.  
  During his career so far, the midfielder has been mostly used in a defensive position, since his move to the Gunners in the summer he has also been deployed in a number eight role.  
  It is a position the former West Ham captain has capitalised on, scoring six goals and making eight assists.  
  "I have been playing consistently well throughout the season," said Rice. "My position has changed a lot since I was at West Ham.  
  "In a positional sense, it is closer to what Gareth wants here. There is still room for improvement and things I can get better at, but I'm enjoying being flexible.  
  "They are two completely different roles. The way Mikel wants his six to play is completely different to his eight. At times when I have been playing recently, I have been highest up the pitch, which is unnatural to me but I am learning.  
  "My strongest position is six - I've built my career on that - but when Mikel says he wants to me to play eight I am excited to get up the pitch, score goals and drive with the ball. Luckily, I can play both, but there are still areas of improvement in both."  
  Rice's ability in both positions gives the Three Lions more options heading into Euro 2024 and is something England boss Gareth Southgate feels can help the side.  
  "It's brilliant for him [Rice], it is something he is capable of," Southgate said. "He is a good finisher - we have seen that in training sessions we have had.  
  "We know he can playing more a advanced role but he has improved a lot at six [through] training with great players every day and having great coaches. You can see his game maturing."  
  Gossip: Gunners in the race for Diomandepublished at 08:05 26 March  
  08:05 26 March  
  Arsenal have matched the £51m plus bonuses offer Chelsea have made for Sporting Lisbon and Ivory Coast defender Ousmane Diomande, 20. (Record via Sun), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  'Speechless' Rice talks of 'great honour' of leading Englandpublished at 17:02 25 March  
  17:02 25 March  
  Arsenal midfielder Declan Rice says it is a "pinch me moment" to be given the chance to captain England.  
  The 25-year-old is set to play his 50th match and wear the armband for the Three Lions when they play Belgium in a friendly at Wembley on Tuesday.  
  Rice said: "[I am] speechless - lost for words. When he [Gareth Southgate] said last night I was going to be captain I gave him a hug, shook his and hand and said thank you.  
  "It is a pinch me moment. On my 50th cap, to walk out at Wembley in front of my family and friends is a great honour."  
  Asked whether he had always seen leadership qualities in Rice, England boss Southgate said: "Yeah, no question. You get a feel for a human being and often their family play a big part in that.  
  "With Declan, you can sense that stability and maturity in the decision-making process. He led from young age at West Ham and has already gained some good experience, and I'm pushing him in that aspect as well."  
  Rice has played in almost every game for the Gunners this season, helping them to the top of Premier League and the quarter-finals of the Champions League, but he doesn't let the pressure of chasing silverware affect him.  
  "Not at all [feel weight of the pressure], I absolutely love it," Rice added.  
  "During my first few seasons at West Ham I played a lot of games in a row. Playing Thursday, Sunday with European games and coming in for international breaks. I love it.  
  "Every time you put the shirt on for Arsenal or England it is an absolute honour and I want to play as many games as possible."  
  'Poor performance in domestic cups' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 12:56 25 March  
  12:56 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  David: I think that the most irritating thing this season for Arsenal has been the fans of other teams questioning and criticising everything we do, even when it leads to 5-1 wins and puts us top of the table. Never see this done to Manchester City or Liverpool - only us, and especially this season.  
  Swiss Arsenal fan: Timber’s injury in the first Premier League game. Awful.  
  Gary: My biggest gripe is that I've been unable to get a ticket for any match this season, despite entering multiple ballots. Still see tickets being sold on unofficial channels. Not sure what the solution is, but makes my annual membership seem pointless.  
  Clive: A great season so far but my gripe is the lack of playing time for Reiss Nelson and Emile Smith Rowe. I would also have liked Mikel Arteta to give first-team game time to some of the younger players.  
  Rocky: When we don't score goals, people complain that we need an out-and-out striker, but then we go score a shedload of goals and say we don't need one. Imagine how many MORE we'd be scoring with one!  
  Trigz: My biggest gripe is the poor performance in domestic cups once again. We seem unable to stay in either domestic cup beyond the third or fourth round. It's not good enough.  
  Cole inducted into Premier League Hall of Famepublished at 11:19 25 March  
  11:19 25 March  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall Of Fame.  
  Often regarded as one of the best left-backs in the competition's history, Cole becomes the 22nd inductee on to the list of ex-players and managers that began in 2021.  
  The 43-year-old won three titles - two with Arsenal and one with Chelsea. He was part of the Gunners' 'Invincibles' in 2003-04 and the Blues side that scored a then-record 103 goals in 2009-10.  
  Cole made 385 Premier League appearances, contributing to 147 clean sheets, scoring 15 goals and providing 31 assists.  
  "I'm honoured to join the Premier League Hall of Fame," said the former England international. "It's humbling and fulfilling to be rewarded at the end of your career.  
  "I went through my career just trying to give my best and be good enough. You take it day by day and game by game. As a young kid, you never dream of any of this and you just do it for the love of the game of football.  
  "I played for some fantastic clubs with incredible fans. Winning trophies with my boyhood club Arsenal and with Chelsea are amazing memories that will always be with me.  
  "It's emotional to reflect because a lot of hard work has been put in. To join the Hall of Fame alongside the likes of Alan Shearer, Thierry Henry, Didier Drogba and Rio Ferdinand, I'm privileged to be in their company."  
  'A clever ruse to keep them fit' - fans on Arsenal injuriespublished at 15:55 22 March  
  15:55 22 March  
  We asked for your thoughts on how injuries have made you feel about the trip to Manchester City trip on Sunday, 31 March (16:30 GMT).  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Amy: I really hope this is precautionary. Gabriel would be the biggest loss because I don't know who would naturally replace him. Gabriel Martinelli is hopefully ok because it was a cut and we need our star boy fit!  
  Liam: I'm not too worried. I feel Mikel Arteta is just taking a leaf out of Pep Guardiola's book and pulling important players out of the March international break. It's no coincidence that Erling Haaland and Kevin de Bruyne are also 'injured' but will no doubt be fit for the next Prem game.  
  Noah: All part of a clever ruse to keep them fit.  
  Jamie: It feels like the players who have pulled out of international duty have done so with minor injuries, so hopefully it’s a precaution and the players can get some rest during the break to be fresh for the rest of the season.  
  David: Glad to see some of the boys getting a rest ahead of our run-in. We need to concentrate on our season, not on pointless international friendlies.  
  Nick: Had such a crazy run of games lately, and we have so many fixtures after the break, these players definitely need a rest. It’s almost better that they deal with these issues now than anyone getting injured on international duty!  
  How have injuries made you feel about the Man City trip?published at 11:01 22 March  
  11:01 22 March  
  Arsenal will travel to Etihad Stadium to face Manchester City on Sunday, 31 March (16:30 GMT).  
  Three of the Gunners' key players, Bukayo Saka (England), Gabriel and Gabriel Martinelli (both Brazil) will not partake in international duty this week through injury.  
  Saka has started 27 of Arsenal's 28 Premier League games this term - the only game he missed was against City in October. Centre-back Gabriel has made 26 appearances (two as a substitute) and Martinelli has featured in 25 games (two as a substitute).  
  Prior to their win against Man City at Emirates Stadium, Arsenal were on a 12-game losing streak against Pep Guardiola's side. It was the club's first Premier League victory over Man City since December 2015.  
  The trio are key factors behind Arsenal's excellent form and to be without all three when facing the defending champions would be a real test of Mikel Arteta's side.  
  Former Arsenal and France striker Alexandre Lacazette is attracting serious interest from Saudi Arabian clubs and the 32-year-old Lyon captain could be the latest big-name European star to move there at the end of the season. (L'Equipe, external)  
  'I think White in some ways has been good for football'published at 09:39 21 March  
  09:39 21 March  
  Ben White's decision to make him self unavailable for selection for England is understandable, say former Premier League players Nedum Onuoha and Cesc Fabregas.  
  The Arsenal defender has been in good form this season for his club, helping them to the top of the table and the quarter-finals of the Champions League.  
  England boss Gareth Southgate said after revealing his squad for the upcoming friendlies with Brazil and Belgium that "White would be in this squad but he's not available to us", adding "it is a great shame".  
  Speaking on the Planet Premier League podcast, Onuoha said: "I think Ben White in some ways has been good for football because he's made people realise the way we perceive people's aspirations is not always the way that other people do.  
  "If he doesn't want to play international football, it's not that he doesn't feel he's English or whatever. When he plays for Arsenal, he's in his [own] bed, probably 90% of the of the season you work and then you go home and he can do his own thing. Being away for long periods of time isn't something that's great for everyone."  
  Ex-Gunners captain Fabregas added: "I think it's the society we live in at the moment. I go back again to what I always say - it's all about the money.  
  "Footballers get paid a lot of money and it feels like they should all be focusing on footballer no matter what. Be an example for everything and you cannot make mistakes. Every error is being punished double or triple than that of a normal human being. This is the life we are in, the one that we have to accept.  
  "I know plenty of guys - I will not mention names - that they finish training sessions and they just want to go home because they don't really love football. They love playing football, they really enjoy it, the competition, they're competitors, are winners. They like the moment for this hour and a half, two hours of being there, but after that, they don't watch football. They don't want anything to do with football.  
  "It is not something that happens very often. Maybe only 5% of the players are like that, but it is what it is and we need to respect it."  
  'Arteta took away all this toxicity around the club'published at 09:38 21 March  
  09:38 21 March  
  Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has transformed the team by taking away the "toxicity" that was around the club when he came in, according to former midfielder Cesc Fabregas.  
  The 41-year-old returned to the Gunners - who he had previously captained as a player - to become head coach in December 2019 following the sacking of Unai Emery.  
  He won the FA Cup in his first season in charge and has since turned the side into title contenders.  
  Speaking on the Planet Premier League podcast, Fabregas said: "I think it's quite simple. Arsenal was merged into a big mess. I think there was too many people talking. There was a lot of toxicity I would say within the club. It doesn't necessarily need to be in the club, but around the club and he [Arteta] just came in.  
  "He had an idea, he had his methodology, style of play, and he put it all together. He had the bravery, even though he's a young coach, to put it all together and to say, right, this is the standards, this is what I want to do.  
  "I think he keeps repeating those words. In press conferences, he talks about intentions, he talks about character, about running, about standards. This is what he put in place - hardworking people, young people that really want to play for the badge, want to be there for the club, want to make the club grow.  
  "He took away all this toxicity around the club that was hurting the players, was hurting the managers and he's doing really well."  
  Latest updates  
  Match-by-match projections in the title racepublished at 17:55  
  17:55  
  Manchester City are in typically formidable post-Christmas form as they aim for an English top-flight record of four consecutive titles. They have 10 wins from 13 league games since December's 1-0 defeat by Aston Villa.  
  As for Liverpool, the 3-1 loss at Arsenal on 4 February remains their only league defeat in nine games so far in 2024. Jurgen Klopp's team still have a trip to Goodison Park for the Merseyside derby to fit into a busy schedule.  
  On Arsenal, although are top of the table, Simon Gleave, head of analysis at Nielsen's Gracenote says their Euro Club Index simulations have the title battle as a "two-horse race", rating City and Liverpool higher as well as the Gunners having "trickier" fixtures.  
  He said: "Arsenal have six matches left against teams in the Premier League's top half but five of those are away from home. Manchester City and Liverpool also both have six matches remaining against teams in the top half of the Premier League, but four of City's are at home and half of Liverpool's are."  
  Man City v Arsenal: Pick of the statspublished at 16:08  
  16:08  
  Here are the key statistics before Manchester City host Arsenal on Sunday.  
  Manchester City have won 12 of their past 13 Premier League games against Arsenal, though the exception was a 1-0 loss at the Emirates in the reverse fixture this season.  
  Following their win at Emirates Stadium in October, the Gunners are looking to complete their first Premier League double over Manchester City since 2007-08.  
  However, Arsenal have lost each of their past seven league away games against City.  
  Pep Guardiola's side are unbeaten in their past 38 home games in all competitions, since a 2-1 loss against Brentford in November 2022. It iss their second longest run without defeat at home in their history, after a run of 42 between 1919 and 1921.  
  Arsenal have won their past eight top-flight games, scoring 33 goals and conceding just four. The Gunners have had three runs of nine or more consecutive victories within a single season in the competition, with each one coming during title winning campaigns – 10 in 1997-98, 13 in 2001-02 and nine in 2003-04.  
  Manchester City have scored in each of their past 57 home games in all competitions, their longest such scoring streak in club history.  
  Match of the Day Top 10: How good were Podolski and Ozil?published at 14:50  
  14:50  
  Arsenal always seem to have a German in their squad, whether that's Kai Havertz in Mikel Arteta's team or Per Mertesacker captaining Arsene Wenger's side to the FA Cup in 2017.  
  In the latest episode of Match of the Day: Top 10, Alan Shearer and Micah Richards ranked the best Premier League players from Germany and while former Gunners keeper Jens Lehmann received praise, two other ex-Arsenal players seemed to achieve cult status while in north London: Lukas Podolski and Mesut Ozil.  
  Shearer and Richards both ranked Podolski at 10th place.  
  "He was great for Germany and then when he came over here I thought he was going to be brilliant," said Richards.  
  "It didn't quite work out for him. He did score 19 goals but you just wanted a little bit more from him."  
  The pundits differed in opinion when it came to Ozil, however, with Shearer ranking him eighth and Richards placing him second.  
  "He was incredible," said Richards.  
  "When he wanted to be," interjected Shearer. "You can't tell me his attitude was 100% right at all times. Something affected him."  
  "He was a magician," added Richards. "If he was in Manchester City's side...  
  A 50th cap to savourpublished at 09:55  
  09:55  
  Declan Rice marked his 50th international appearance by leading England out at Wembley against Belgium.  
  The 25-year-old is the first Arsenal player to start a match as England captain since Sol Campbell in 2005 against USA, and the first at Wembley since Tony Adams in 2000 against Germany.  
  It is not new territory for Rice who captained hometown club West Ham for the 2022-23 season before moving to Emirates Stadium last summer.  
  Gossip: Arsenal receive Isak boostpublished at 07:55  
  07:55  
  Arsenal appear to have received a boost to their chances of signing Newcastle's Sweden striker Alexander Isak after the 24-year-old admitted "things can happen" in the transfer window. (Mail), external  
  The Gunners are also considering a summer move for Sporting Lisbon and Ivory Coast centre-back Ousmane Diomande, 20, after he stood out during a scouting trip to watch Sweden forward Viktor Gyokeres, 25. (Sun), external  
  Gyokeres has moved ahead of England and Brentford striker Ivan Toney on Arsenal's list of potential new strikers, while West Ham are also interested in the former Coventry striker. (TalkSport), external  
  Sturm Graz want to sign Arsenal and Denmark under-21s striker Mika Biereth, 21, on a permanent deal following a successful loan spell. (Evening Standard), external  
  Finally, the Gunners are open to selling Portuguese full-back Nuno Tavares, 24, this summer, with Lazio interested in his services. (Football London), external  
  The three things Gunners need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 13:00 26 March  
  13:00 26 March  
  Oli Price-Bates Fan writer  
  Arsenal are in scintillating form right now, but for the Gunners to take the next step and win either the Champions League or Premier League this season, they will need three things to happen:  
  Squad to stay fit  
  Key players who have struggled with injuries - like Thomas Partey, Gabriel Jesus, Oleksandr Zinchenko and Takehiro Tomiyasu - will need to stay fit and make contributions over a hectic April and May.  
  Their availability will enable Arsenal to be unpredictable and fresh for opponents.  
  Effective rotation  
  Mikel Arteta has struggled to find the balance between consistency and rotation in the past but, during this busy run-in, he will need to get it right with such a small margin for error.  
  Havertz remain hot  
  Kai Havertz has found some excellent form in 2024 and become an integral part of this Arsenal side.  
  His unique skillset and ability to perform in multiple areas of the pitch provide Arteta with the tactical flexibility and unpredictability that is likely to be needed to win a major trophy.  
  France game time 'hasn't always gone well' for Salibapublished at 11:59 26 March  
  11:59 26 March  
  France manager Didier Deschamps says the "current pecking order doesn't favour" William Saliba, despite the Arsenal defender's good club form.  
  The 23-year-old has played 38 games for the Gunners this season and been key in helping them to the top of the Premier League and the quarter finals of the Champions League.  
  However, he has failed to cement a regular place for his national team, starting six of his 12 appearances, and was left on the bench during the 2-0 home defeat by Germany on Saturday.  
  Dayot Upamecano, Ibrahima Konate, and Benjamin Pavard have been given the nod ahead of Saliba in recent games, as France's preparations for Euro 2024 continue.  
  "Saliba is playing a good season [with Arsenal]," said Deschamps. "But I see him alternating things which I like a bit less. With the French national team, he gets less playing time.  
  "When he has got some, it hasn't always gone well. I'm aware that I put him in a context that wasn't always easy.  
  "The current pecking order doesn't favour him, but he's there. He'll get some game time on Tuesday."  
  France host Chile in a friendly at 20:00 GMT on Tuesday.  
  'My position has changed a lot'published at 11:20 26 March  
  11:20 26 March  
  Declan Rice says he is "enjoying being flexible" in his playing position for both Arsenal and England.  
  During his career so far, the midfielder has been mostly used in a defensive position, since his move to the Gunners in the summer he has also been deployed in a number eight role.  
  It is a position the former West Ham captain has capitalised on, scoring six goals and making eight assists.  
  "I have been playing consistently well throughout the season," said Rice. "My position has changed a lot since I was at West Ham.  
  "In a positional sense, it is closer to what Gareth wants here. There is still room for improvement and things I can get better at, but I'm enjoying being flexible.  
  "They are two completely different roles. The way Mikel wants his six to play is completely different to his eight. At times when I have been playing recently, I have been highest up the pitch, which is unnatural to me but I am learning.  
  "My strongest position is six - I've built my career on that - but when Mikel says he wants to me to play eight I am excited to get up the pitch, score goals and drive with the ball. Luckily, I can play both, but there are still areas of improvement in both."  
  Rice's ability in both positions gives the Three Lions more options heading into Euro 2024 and is something England boss Gareth Southgate feels can help the side.  
  "It's brilliant for him [Rice], it is something he is capable of," Southgate said. "He is a good finisher - we have seen that in training sessions we have had.  
  "We know he can playing more a advanced role but he has improved a lot at six [through] training with great players every day and having great coaches. You can see his game maturing."  
  Gossip: Gunners in the race for Diomandepublished at 08:05 26 March  
  08:05 26 March  
  Arsenal have matched the £51m plus bonuses offer Chelsea have made for Sporting Lisbon and Ivory Coast defender Ousmane Diomande, 20. (Record via Sun), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  'Speechless' Rice talks of 'great honour' of leading Englandpublished at 17:02 25 March  
  17:02 25 March  
  Arsenal midfielder Declan Rice says it is a "pinch me moment" to be given the chance to captain England.  
  The 25-year-old is set to play his 50th match and wear the armband for the Three Lions when they play Belgium in a friendly at Wembley on Tuesday.  
  Rice said: "[I am] speechless - lost for words. When he [Gareth Southgate] said last night I was going to be captain I gave him a hug, shook his and hand and said thank you.  
  "It is a pinch me moment. On my 50th cap, to walk out at Wembley in front of my family and friends is a great honour."  
  Asked whether he had always seen leadership qualities in Rice, England boss Southgate said: "Yeah, no question. You get a feel for a human being and often their family play a big part in that.  
  "With Declan, you can sense that stability and maturity in the decision-making process. He led from young age at West Ham and has already gained some good experience, and I'm pushing him in that aspect as well."  
  Rice has played in almost every game for the Gunners this season, helping them to the top of Premier League and the quarter-finals of the Champions League, but he doesn't let the pressure of chasing silverware affect him.  
  "Not at all [feel weight of the pressure], I absolutely love it," Rice added.  
  "During my first few seasons at West Ham I played a lot of games in a row. Playing Thursday, Sunday with European games and coming in for international breaks. I love it.  
  "Every time you put the shirt on for Arsenal or England it is an absolute honour and I want to play as many games as possible."  
  'Poor performance in domestic cups' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 12:56 25 March  
  12:56 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  David: I think that the most irritating thing this season for Arsenal has been the fans of other teams questioning and criticising everything we do, even when it leads to 5-1 wins and puts us top of the table. Never see this done to Manchester City or Liverpool - only us, and especially this season.  
  Swiss Arsenal fan: Timber’s injury in the first Premier League game. Awful.  
  Gary: My biggest gripe is that I've been unable to get a ticket for any match this season, despite entering multiple ballots. Still see tickets being sold on unofficial channels. Not sure what the solution is, but makes my annual membership seem pointless.  
  Clive: A great season so far but my gripe is the lack of playing time for Reiss Nelson and Emile Smith Rowe. I would also have liked Mikel Arteta to give first-team game time to some of the younger players.  
  Rocky: When we don't score goals, people complain that we need an out-and-out striker, but then we go score a shedload of goals and say we don't need one. Imagine how many MORE we'd be scoring with one!  
  Trigz: My biggest gripe is the poor performance in domestic cups once again. We seem unable to stay in either domestic cup beyond the third or fourth round. It's not good enough.  
  Cole inducted into Premier League Hall of Famepublished at 11:19 25 March  
  11:19 25 March  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall Of Fame.  
  Often regarded as one of the best left-backs in the competition's history, Cole becomes the 22nd inductee on to the list of ex-players and managers that began in 2021.  
  The 43-year-old won three titles - two with Arsenal and one with Chelsea. He was part of the Gunners' 'Invincibles' in 2003-04 and the Blues side that scored a then-record 103 goals in 2009-10.  
  Cole made 385 Premier League appearances, contributing to 147 clean sheets, scoring 15 goals and providing 31 assists.  
  "I'm honoured to join the Premier League Hall of Fame," said the former England international. "It's humbling and fulfilling to be rewarded at the end of your career.  
  "I went through my career just trying to give my best and be good enough. You take it day by day and game by game. As a young kid, you never dream of any of this and you just do it for the love of the game of football.  
  "I played for some fantastic clubs with incredible fans. Winning trophies with my boyhood club Arsenal and with Chelsea are amazing memories that will always be with me.  
  "It's emotional to reflect because a lot of hard work has been put in. To join the Hall of Fame alongside the likes of Alan Shearer, Thierry Henry, Didier Drogba and Rio Ferdinand, I'm privileged to be in their company."  
  'A clever ruse to keep them fit' - fans on Arsenal injuriespublished at 15:55 22 March  
  15:55 22 March  
  We asked for your thoughts on how injuries have made you feel about the trip to Manchester City trip on Sunday, 31 March (16:30 GMT).  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Amy: I really hope this is precautionary. Gabriel would be the biggest loss because I don't know who would naturally replace him. Gabriel Martinelli is hopefully ok because it was a cut and we need our star boy fit!  
  Liam: I'm not too worried. I feel Mikel Arteta is just taking a leaf out of Pep Guardiola's book and pulling important players out of the March international break. It's no coincidence that Erling Haaland and Kevin de Bruyne are also 'injured' but will no doubt be fit for the next Prem game.  
  Noah: All part of a clever ruse to keep them fit.  
  Jamie: It feels like the players who have pulled out of international duty have done so with minor injuries, so hopefully it’s a precaution and the players can get some rest during the break to be fresh for the rest of the season.  
  David: Glad to see some of the boys getting a rest ahead of our run-in. We need to concentrate on our season, not on pointless international friendlies.  
  Nick: Had such a crazy run of games lately, and we have so many fixtures after the break, these players definitely need a rest. It’s almost better that they deal with these issues now than anyone getting injured on international duty!  
  How have injuries made you feel about the Man City trip?published at 11:01 22 March  
  11:01 22 March  
  Arsenal will travel to Etihad Stadium to face Manchester City on Sunday, 31 March (16:30 GMT).  
  Three of the Gunners' key players, Bukayo Saka (England), Gabriel and Gabriel Martinelli (both Brazil) will not partake in international duty this week through injury.  
  Saka has started 27 of Arsenal's 28 Premier League games this term - the only game he missed was against City in October. Centre-back Gabriel has made 26 appearances (two as a substitute) and Martinelli has featured in 25 games (two as a substitute).  
  Prior to their win against Man City at Emirates Stadium, Arsenal were on a 12-game losing streak against Pep Guardiola's side. It was the club's first Premier League victory over Man City since December 2015.  
  The trio are key factors behind Arsenal's excellent form and to be without all three when facing the defending champions would be a real test of Mikel Arteta's side.  
  Former Arsenal and France striker Alexandre Lacazette is attracting serious interest from Saudi Arabian clubs and the 32-year-old Lyon captain could be the latest big-name European star to move there at the end of the season. (L'Equipe, external)  
  'I think White in some ways has been good for football'published at 09:39 21 March  
  09:39 21 March  
  Ben White's decision to make him self unavailable for selection for England is understandable, say former Premier League players Nedum Onuoha and Cesc Fabregas.  
  The Arsenal defender has been in good form this season for his club, helping them to the top of the table and the quarter-finals of the Champions League.  
  England boss Gareth Southgate said after revealing his squad for the upcoming friendlies with Brazil and Belgium that "White would be in this squad but he's not available to us", adding "it is a great shame".  
  Speaking on the Planet Premier League podcast, Onuoha said: "I think Ben White in some ways has been good for football because he's made people realise the way we perceive people's aspirations is not always the way that other people do.  
  "If he doesn't want to play international football, it's not that he doesn't feel he's English or whatever. When he plays for Arsenal, he's in his [own] bed, probably 90% of the of the season you work and then you go home and he can do his own thing. Being away for long periods of time isn't something that's great for everyone."  
  Ex-Gunners captain Fabregas added: "I think it's the society we live in at the moment. I go back again to what I always say - it's all about the money.  
  "Footballers get paid a lot of money and it feels like they should all be focusing on footballer no matter what. Be an example for everything and you cannot make mistakes. Every error is being punished double or triple than that of a normal human being. This is the life we are in, the one that we have to accept.  
  "I know plenty of guys - I will not mention names - that they finish training sessions and they just want to go home because they don't really love football. They love playing football, they really enjoy it, the competition, they're competitors, are winners. They like the moment for this hour and a half, two hours of being there, but after that, they don't watch football. They don't want anything to do with football.  
  "It is not something that happens very often. Maybe only 5% of the players are like that, but it is what it is and we need to respect it."  
  'Arteta took away all this toxicity around the club'published at 09:38 21 March  
  09:38 21 March  
  Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta has transformed the team by taking away the "toxicity" that was around the club when he came in, according to former midfielder Cesc Fabregas.  
  The 41-year-old returned to the Gunners - who he had previously captained as a player - to become head coach in December 2019 following the sacking of Unai Emery.  
  He won the FA Cup in his first season in charge and has since turned the side into title contenders.  
  Speaking on the Planet Premier League podcast, Fabregas said: "I think it's quite simple. Arsenal was merged into a big mess. I think there was too many people talking. There was a lot of toxicity I would say within the club. It doesn't necessarily need to be in the club, but around the club and he [Arteta] just came in.  
  "He had an idea, he had his methodology, style of play, and he put it all together. He had the bravery, even though he's a young coach, to put it all together and to say, right, this is the standards, this is what I want to do.  
  "I think he keeps repeating those words. In press conferences, he talks about intentions, he talks about character, about running, about standards. This is what he put in place - hardworking people, young people that really want to play for the badge, want to be there for the club, want to make the club grow.  
  "He took away all this toxicity around the club that was hurting the players, was hurting the managers and he's doing really well."  
  More from Football  
  Manchester City Women defender and former England captain Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season.  
  John Stones, Kyle Walker, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are among the key players in a race to be fit for the big Super Sunday showdown between Man City and Arsenal.  
  Declan Rice is hoping to convince Arsenal team-mate Ben White to make an international U-turn and become available to play for England.  
  Kyle Walker is expected to recover from injury in time for Man City's huge match against title rivals Arsenal on Sunday - live on Sky Sports.  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  Arsenal forward Bukayo Saka has withdrawn from the England squad due to a minor muscle issue.  
  How Arsenal captain Martin Odegaard has dropped deeper to help get Mikel Arteta's side firing this season.  
  Bukayo Saka has reached a half-century of goals for Arsenal with better figures than Cristiano Ronaldo in the first 210 games of his career.  
  Sky Sports goes behind the scenes at Como to find out more about the small Italian club with big plans to reach Serie A - with the help of two World Cup-winning legends.  
  Arsenal are historically known for their technical quality but Mikel Arteta has increased the emphasis on physicality to give them an edge this season.  
  Arsenal  
  English football club  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Also known as: Arsenal Football Club, Royal Arsenal, Woolwich Arsenal, the Gunners  
  Arsenal, English professional football (soccer) team based in London. Arsenal is one of the most successful squads in English football history, having played in the country’s top division (Football League First Division to 1992, Premier League thereafter) each season since 1919. In the process it has captured 13 league titles.  
  The club was founded in 1886 and took the name Royal Arsenal after its first game, combining the moniker of the Royal Oak pub, where the team members met, with that of their workplace, the Arsenal munitions factory in Woolwich. The name was changed to Woolwich Arsenal in 1891, and Woolwich was dropped from the name after the 1912–13 season, when the team moved its home stadium to the Highbury section of the London borough of Islington. The club played at Arsenal Stadium (commonly referred to as “Highbury”) until 2006, when it relocated to a new, 60,000-seat stadium in Islington’s Holloway district.  
  Arsenal has a long-standing rivalry with another North London club, Tottenham Hotspur, against whom it plays the “North London derby” match nearly every year. When the Football League resumed play in 1919 after World War I, Arsenal—which had finished fifth in the Second Division before the war—was controversially promoted to the First Division over higher-placing Tottenham after Arsenal’s chairman argued that his club deserved promotion because of its longer history, further spurring the rivalry between the two teams.  
  While Arsenal has remained in the top division ever since its contentious promotion, its periods of great achievements have been widely dispersed. The club won five league championships in the 1930s but only three total in the 50 seasons from 1938–39 to 1987–88. Arsène Wenger became the team’s manager in 1996 and has served longer in that role than anyone else in club history. Arsenal went undefeated in the 38 matches of the 2003–04 season, becoming just the second top-division English club to do so, and it set a national record by extending its unbeaten streak into the next season to 49 consecutive league contests in total. In addition to its league championships, Arsenal has won the Football Association (FA) Cup 13 times and the League Cup twice, as well as the European Cup Winners’ Cup (1994). Among the standout footballers who have played for Arsenal are forwards Cliff Bastin and Dennis Bergkamp, goalkeeper Pat Jennings, midfielder Liam Brady, defender Tony Adams, and, arguably the team’s greatest player, striker Thierry Henry, who scored a club-record 226 goals between 1999 and 2007.  
  Arsenal’s progress over the last two seasons has been remarkable. Not so long ago, many doubted whether Mikel Arteta was the right man to take the Gunners forward. Now, Arsenal is just 10 games away from winning the Premier PINC League title for the first time since the days of Arsene Wenger, starting with a trip to Manchester City on Sunday.  
  This will be the biggest test so far of Arsenal’s title credentials. The North London side has already beaten City once this season, but toppling the defending Premier League champions on their own patch will be an altogether different challenge. Victory would make the Gunners firm favourites to finish top of the table.  
  With Jurgen Klopp leaving Liverpool at the end of the season, Sunday’s fixture could be the first episode of the Premier League’s next defining managerial rivalry. Of course, Arteta and Pep Guardiola have faced each other before as adversaries, but never before have the stakes been so high as they are now.  
  Arteta worked under Guardiola at Manchester City for a number of years. He learned a lot from the former Barcelona and Bayern Munich manager before taking over at Arsenal where he has remoulded the team - and the club as a whole - in his own image. There is significant overlap between City and the Gunners in the way they play.  
  That Arteta and Guardiola used to be so close and worked together only makes their personal duel more compelling. If Guardiola is the master, Arteta is the apprentice. Sunday, however, presents the Arsenal manager with an opportunity to elevate him to the level of his former mentor and boss.  
  There’s good reason to believe Arsenal can get the job done at the Etihad Stadium. The Gunners’ boast the strongest defensive record in the Premier League this season, conceding just 24 goals in 28 games. Set pieces have been a key part of Arteta’s strategy, as has counter-pressing which could give City an issue.  
  Not for two decades has Arsenal possesses such a strong lineup. The addition of Declan Rice from West Ham last summer gave the North London side greater presence in the centre of the pitch while Kai Havertz has justified his signing from Chelsea by providing a number of important goals at important times.  
  Under Arteta, Arsenal has developed into a team capable of competing at the top of English and European soccer. That has been proven by the success of the last two seasons. Now it’s time for Arsenal to show it can take the final step in its development. The Etihad Stadium would be the perfect place to do this.  
  Arsenal was the first club from southern England to join the Football League in 1893, and it reached the First Division in 1904. Relegated only once, in 1913, it continues the longest streak in the top division,[3] and has won the second-most top-flight matches in English football history.[4] In the 1930s, Arsenal won five League Championships and two FA Cups, and another FA Cup and two Championships after the war. In 1970–71, it won its first League and FA Cup Double. Between 1989 and 2005, they won five League titles and five FA Cups, including two more Doubles. They completed the 20th century with the highest average league position.[5] Between 1998 and 2017, Arsenal qualified for the UEFA Champions League for nineteen consecutive seasons.  
  In 1886, munitions workers at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich founded the club as Dial Square. In 1913 the club crossed the city to Arsenal Stadium in Highbury, becoming close neighbours of Tottenham Hotspur, and creating the North London derby. Herbert Chapman, who changed the fortunes of Arsenal forever, won the club its first silverware, and his legacy brought the club domination in the 1930s. He helped introduce the WM formation, floodlights, and shirt numbers;[6] he also added the white sleeves and brighter red to the club's jersey.[7] Arsène Wenger is the club's longest-serving manager and has won the most trophies for it. He won a record seven FA Cups, and his title-winning team set an English record for the longest top-flight unbeaten league run at 49 games between 2003 and 2004, receiving the nickname The Invincibles.  
  In 2006, the club moved to the nearby Emirates Stadium. With an annual revenue of £367.1m in the 2021–22 season,[8] Arsenal was estimated to be worth US$2.26 billion by Forbes, making it the world's tenth-most valuable football club,[9] while it is one of the most followed on social media.[10] The motto of the club is Victoria Concordia Crescit, Latin for "Victory Through Harmony".  
  History  
  1886–1912: from Dial Square to Arsenal  
  In October 1886, Scotsman David Danskin and fifteen fellow munitions workers in Woolwich formed Dial Square Football Club, named after a workshop at the heart of the Royal Arsenal complex. Each member contributed sixpence and Danskin also added three shillings to help form the club.[11][note 1] Dial Square played their first match on 11 December 1886 against Eastern Wanderers and won 6–0.[15] The club had renamed to Royal Arsenal by January 1887,[14][16] and its first home was Plumstead Common,[14] though they spent most of their time playing at the Manor Ground. Their first trophies were the Kent Senior Cup and London Charity Cup in 1889–90 and the London Senior Cup in 1890–91; these were the only county association trophies Arsenal won during their time in South East London.[17][18] In 1891, Royal Arsenal became the first London club to turn professional.[19]  
  Royal Arsenal renamed for a second time upon becoming a limited liability company in 1893. They registered their new name, Woolwich Arsenal, with the Football League when the club ascended later that year.[20][21]: 5–21 Woolwich Arsenal was the first southern member of the Football League, starting out in the Second Division and reaching the First Division in 1904. Falling attendances, due to financial difficulties among the munitions workers and the arrival of more accessible football clubs elsewhere in the city, led the club close to bankruptcy by 1910.[22][21]: 112–149 Businessmen Henry Norris and William Hall became involved in the club, and sought to move them elsewhere.[23][21]: 22–42  
  1912–1925: Bank of England club  
  In 1913, soon after relegation back to the Second Division, the club moved across the river to the new Arsenal Stadium in Highbury.[24][25][26] In 1919, the Football League controversially voted to promote The Arsenal, instead of relegated local rivals Tottenham Hotspur, into the newly enlarged First Division, despite only finishing fifth in the Second Division's last pre-war season of 1914–15. Later that year, The Arsenal started dropping "The" in official documents, gradually shifting its name for the final time towards Arsenal, as it is generally known today.[27]  
  With a new home and First Division football, attendances were more than double those at the Manor Ground, and Arsenal's budget grew rapidly.[28][29] With record-breaking spending and gate receipts, Arsenal quickly became known as the Bank of England club.[30][31]  
  1925–1934: Herbert Chapman's legendary Gunners  
  Arsenal's location and record-breaking salary offer lured star Huddersfield Town manager Herbert Chapman in 1925.[32][33] Over the next five years, Chapman built a revolutionary new Arsenal. Firstly, he appointed an enduring new trainer Tom Whittaker who would one day rise to become a fabled Arsenal manager himself.[34] With the help of player Charlie Buchan, implemented the nascent WM formation which would serve as a stable bedrock to his outfit.[35][36] He also captured generational young talents such as Cliff Bastin and Eddie Hapgood, whilst also lavishing Highbury's high income on stars such as David Jack and Alex James.  
  Transformed, Chapman's Arsenal claimed their first national trophy, the FA Cup in 1930, and League Championships followed in 1930–31 and 1932–33.[37] Chapman also presided over off-pitch changes: white sleeves and shirt numbers were added to the kit;[note 2] a Tube station was named after the club;[41][42] and the first of two opulent, Art Deco stands was completed, with some of the first floodlights in English football.[29] Suddenly, in the middle of the 1933–34 season, Chapman died of pneumonia.[43]  
  1934–1947: Shaw, Allison & the Second World War  
  Chapman's death meant work was left to his colleagues Joe Shaw and George Allison, with both proving to be shrewd & consummate custodians of Chapman's excellent Arsenal team, seeing out a hat-trick of league wins with the 1933–34, 1934–35, and 1937–38 titles, and then furthermore winning the 1936 FA Cup.[44][45]  
  World War II meant the Football League was suspended for seven years. While Arsenal were paraded by the nation as a symbol of solidarity with war efforts, the war took a huge toll on the team as the club had had more players killed than any top flight club.[46] Furthermore, debt from reconstructing an ambitious North Bank Stand redevelopment greatly bled Arsenal's resources.[47][29]  
  1947–1962: Tom Whittaker's meteoric Gunners  
  Despite this period of turbulence & churn, Arsenal returned to win the league in the second post-war season of 1947–48. This was Tom Whittaker's first season as manager, and meant the club equalled the champions of England record.[48] Tom Whittaker, despite his disarming humble & modest disposition, was oft-referred to as the "brains" behind the charismatic Chapman's legendary Arsenal side.[49][50] He gathered a successful & highly skilled Arsenal side in spite of greatly limited resources, with a fiery and expansive style that drove great fanfare at the time.[51]  
  They won a third FA Cup in 1950, and then won a record-breaking seventh championship in 1952–53 making Arsenal the most successful team in English history at the time.[52][53]  
  1962–1984: Billy Wright, Bertie Mee and Neill's cohorts  
  Arsenal were not to win the League or the FA Cup for another 18 years. The '53 Champions squad had aged, and the club failed to attract strong enough replacements.[54] Although Arsenal were competitive during these years, their fortunes had waned; the club spent most of the 1950s and 1960s in mid-table mediocrity.[55] Even former England captain Billy Wright could not bring the club any success as manager, in a stint between 1962 and 1966.[56]  
  1984–1996: George Graham's Arsenal  
  One of Mee's double winners, George Graham, returned as manager in 1986, with Arsenal winning their first League Cup in 1987, Graham's first season in charge. New signings Nigel Winterburn, Lee Dixon and Steve Bould had joined the club by 1988 to complete the "famous Back Four", led by homegrown player Tony Adams.[63][note 3] Graham's credo of prioritising defensive excellence seemingly clashed with the club's traditional expansive motif and with the young player demographic at the club at the time; however, it quickly gained a cult following after initial successes.[64]  
  1996–2018: Wenger years  
  The club metamorphosed during the tenure of French manager Arsène Wenger, who was appointed in 1996. Attacking football,[69] an overhaul of dietary and fitness practices,[note 4] and efficiency with money[note 5] defined his reign. Accumulating key players from Wenger's homeland, such as Patrick Vieira and Thierry Henry, Arsenal won a second League and Cup double in 1997–98 and a third in 2001–02. In addition, the club reached the final of the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup, were victorious in the 2003 and 2005 FA Cup finals, and won the Premier League in 2003–04 without losing a single match, an achievement which earned the side the nickname "The Invincibles".[78] This feat came within a run of 49 league matches unbeaten from 7 May 2003 to 24 October 2004, a national record.[79]  
  Arsenal finished in either first or second place in the league in eight of Wenger's first nine seasons at the club, although they never won the title in two consecutive seasons.[80] The club had never progressed beyond the quarter-finals of the Champions League until 2005–06; in that season they became the first club from London to reach the final in the competition's fifty-year history, but were beaten 2–1 by Barcelona.[81] In July 2006, they moved into the Emirates Stadium, after 93 years at Highbury.[82] Arsenal reached the final of the 2007 and 2011 League Cups, losing 2–1 to Chelsea and Birmingham City respectively. The club had not gained a trophy since the 2005 FA Cup until, spearheaded by club record acquisition Mesut Özil, Arsenal beat Hull City in the 2014 FA Cup Final, coming back from a 2–0 deficit to win the match 3–2.[83] A year later, Arsenal completed another victorious FA Cup campaign,[84] and became the most successful club in the tournament's history by winning their 13th FA Cup in 2016–17. However, in that same season Arsenal finished fifth in the league, the first time they had finished outside the top four since before Wenger arrived in 1996.[85] In his 21st and final season, Arsenal under Arsene Wenger finished sixth and won the community shield.[86][87] Wenger departed Arsenal following the end of the season, on 13 May 2018.[88]  
  2018–2020: post-Wenger revolution  
  After conducting an overhaul in the club's operating model to coincide with Wenger's departure, Spaniard Unai Emery was named as the club's new head coach on 23 May 2018. He became the club's first ever 'head coach' and second manager from outside the United Kingdom.[89][90] In Emery's first season, Arsenal finished fifth in the Premier League and as runner-up in the Europa League.[91][92] On 29 November 2019, Emery was dismissed as manager and former player and assistant first team coach Freddie Ljungberg was appointed as interim head coach.[93][94][95]  
  2020–: Arteta era  
  On 20 December 2019, Arsenal appointed former club captain Mikel Arteta as the new head coach.[96][97] Arsenal finished the league season in eighth, their lowest finish since 1994–95, but beat Chelsea 2–1 to earn a record-extending 14th FA Cup win.[98] After the season, Arteta's title was changed from head coach to manager.[99] On 18 April 2021, Arsenal were announced as a founding club of the breakaway European competition The Super League;[100] they withdrew from the competition two days later amid near-universal condemnation.[101] Arsenal finished the 2020–21 season in eighth place once again, not qualifying for a European competition for the first time in 26 years.[102] In the 2022–23 Premier League season, Arsenal returned to the Champions League by coming second to Manchester City. Arsenal led the league for most of the season, but suffered a series of losses at the end of the run, setting a record for most time spent on top of the table without actually winning the league.[103]  
  Crest  
  Crests of Arsenal F.C. prior to current current crest  
  Royal Arsenal's first crest, adopted in 1888, two years after the formation of the club  
  Unveiled in 1888, Royal Arsenal's first crest featured three cannons viewed from above, pointing northwards, similar to the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Woolwich (nowadays transferred to the coat of arms of the Royal Borough of Greenwich). These can sometimes be mistaken for chimneys, but the presence of a carved lion's head and a cascabel on each are clear indicators that they are cannons.[104] This was dropped after the move to Highbury in 1913, only to be reinstated in 1922, when the club adopted a crest featuring a single cannon, pointing eastwards, with the club's nickname, The Gunners, inscribed alongside it; this crest only lasted until 1925, when the cannon was reversed to point westward and its barrel slimmed down.[104]  
  In 1949, the club unveiled a modernised crest featuring the same style of cannon below the club's name, set in blackletter typography, and above the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Islington and a scroll inscribed with the club's newly adopted Latin motto, Victoria Concordia Crescit (VCC) – "victory comes from harmony" – coined by the club's programme editor Harry Homer.[104][105] For the first time, the crest was rendered in colour, which varied slightly over the crest's lifespan, finally becoming red, gold and green. Because of the numerous revisions of the crest, Arsenal were unable to copyright it.[106] Although the club had managed to register the crest as a trademark, and had fought (and eventually won) a long legal battle with a local street trader who sold "unofficial" Arsenal merchandise,[107] Arsenal eventually sought a more comprehensive legal protection. Therefore, in 2002 they introduced a new crest featuring more modern curved lines and a simplified style, which was copyrightable.[108] The cannon once again faces east, and the club's name is written in a sans-serif typeface above the cannon. Green was replaced by dark blue. The new crest was criticised by some supporters; the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association claimed that the club had ignored much of Arsenal's history and tradition with such a radical modern design, and that fans had not been properly consulted on the issue.[109] Until the 1960s, a badge was worn on the playing shirt only for high-profile matches such as FA Cup finals, usually in the form of a monogram of the club's initials in red on a white background.[110]  
  The monogram theme was developed into an Art Deco-style badge on which the letters A and C framed a football rather than the letter F, the whole set within a hexagonal border. This early example of a corporate logo, introduced as part of Herbert Chapman's rebranding of the club in the 1930s, was used not only on Cup Final shirts but as a design feature throughout Highbury Stadium, including above the main entrance and inlaid in the floors.[111] From 1967, a white cannon was regularly worn on the shirts, until replaced by the club crest, sometimes with the addition of the nickname "The Gunners", in the 1990s.[110]  
  In the 2011–12 season, Arsenal celebrated their 125th anniversary. The celebrations included a modified version of the current crest worn on their jerseys for the season. The crest was all-white, surrounded by 15 oak leaves to the right and 15 laurel leaves to the left. The oak leaves represent the 15 founding members of the club who met at the Royal Oak pub. The 15 laurel leaves represent the design detail on the six pence pieces paid by the founding fathers to establish the club. The laurel leaves also represent strength. To complete the crest, 1886 and 2011 are shown on either sides of the motto "Forward" at the bottom of the crest.[112]  
  Colours  
  Arsenal's original home colours. The team wore a similar kit (but with redcurrant socks) during the 2005–06 season.  
  White sleeves first appeared on the shirt in 1933.  
  Yellow shirt with blue trim and blue shorts are Arsenal's traditional away colours.  
  Since the 1990s, Blue has been prominently used for either the away or third kit.  
  For much of Arsenal's history, their home colours have been bright red shirts with white sleeves and white shorts, though this has not always been the case. The choice of red is in recognition of a charitable donation from Nottingham Forest, soon after Arsenal's foundation in 1886. Two of Dial Square's founding members, Fred Beardsley and Morris Bates, were former Forest players who had moved to Woolwich for work. As they put together the first team in the area, no kit could be found, so Beardsley and Bates wrote home for help and received a set of kit and a ball.[113] The shirt was redcurrant, a dark shade of red, and was worn with white shorts and socks with blue and white hoops.[114][115]  
  In 1933, Herbert Chapman, wanting his players to be more distinctly dressed, updated the kit, adding white sleeves and changing the shade to a brighter pillar box red. Two possibilities have been suggested for the origin of the white sleeves. One story reports that Chapman noticed a supporter in the stands wearing a red sleeveless sweater over a white shirt; another was that he was inspired by a similar outfit worn by the cartoonist Tom Webster, with whom Chapman played golf.[116] Regardless of which story is true, the red-and-white shirts have come to define Arsenal, and the team have worn that combination ever since that time, aside from two seasons. The first was 1966–67, when Arsenal wore all-red shirts;[115] this proved unpopular, and the white sleeves returned the following season. The second was 2005–06, the last season that Arsenal played at Highbury, when the team wore commemorative redcurrant shirts similar to those worn in 1913, their first season in the stadium; the side reverted to their normal colours at the start of the next season.[116] In the 2008–09 season, Arsenal replaced the traditional all-white sleeves with red sleeves that bore a broad white stripe.[115]  
  Arsenal's home colours have been the inspiration for at least three other clubs. In 1909, Sparta Prague adopted a dark red kit like the one Arsenal wore at the time;[116] in 1938, Hibernian adopted the design of the Arsenal shirt sleeves in their own green-and-white strip.[117] In 1941, Luis Robledo, an England-schooled founder of Santa Fe and a fan of Arsenal, selected the main colours for his newly created team. In 1920, Sporting Clube de Braga's manager returned from a game at Highbury and changed his team's green kit to a duplicate of Arsenal's red-with-white-sleeves-and-shorts, giving rise to the team's nickname of Os Arsenalistas.[118] These teams still wear those designs to this day.  
  For many years Arsenal's away colours were white or navy blue. However, in 1968 the FA banned navy shirts (they looked too similar to referees' black kit), so in the 1969–70 season Arsenal introduced an away kit of yellow shirts with blue shorts. This kit was worn in the 1971 FA Cup Final when Arsenal beat Liverpool to secure the double for the first time in their history. The yellow and blue strip became almost as famous as their iconic red-and-white home kit.[119][120] Arsenal reached the FA Cup final again the following year wearing the red-and-white home strip and were beaten by Leeds United. Arsenal then competed in three consecutive FA Cup finals between 1978 and 1980 wearing their "lucky" yellow and blue strip,[119] which remained the club's away strip until the release of a green and navy away kit in 1982–83. The following season, Arsenal returned to the yellow and blue scheme, albeit with a darker shade of blue than before.  
  When Nike took over from Adidas as Arsenal's kit provider in 1994, Arsenal's away colours were again changed to two-tone blue shirts and shorts. Since the advent of the lucrative replica kit market, the away kits have been changed regularly, with Arsenal usually releasing both away and third choice kits. During this period the designs have been either all blue designs, or variations on the traditional yellow and blue, such as the metallic gold and navy strip used in the 2001–02 season, the yellow and dark grey used from 2005 to 2007, and the yellow and maroon of 2010 to 2013.[121] Until 2014, the away kit was changed every season, and the outgoing away kit became the third-choice kit if a new home kit was being introduced in the same year.[122]  
  After Puma began manufacturing Arsenal's kits in 2014, new home, away and third kits were released every season. In the 2017–18 season, Puma released a new colour scheme for the away and third kits. The away kit was a light blue, which faded to a darker blue near the bottom, while the third kit was black with red highlight. Puma returned to the original colour scheme for the 2018–19 season.[123]  
  From the 2019–20 season Arsenal's kits are manufactured by Adidas.[124] In the 2020–21 season, Adidas unveiled the new away kit to mark the 15-year anniversary of leaving Highbury. The new away kit is white, with a marbled pattern to replicate the iconic marble hall in the East stand of Highbury.[125]  
  Stadiums  
  Before joining the Football League, Arsenal played briefly on Plumstead Common, then at the Manor Ground in Plumstead, then spent three years between 1890 and 1893 at the nearby Invicta Ground. Upon joining the Football League in 1893, the club returned to the Manor Ground and installed stands and terracing, upgrading it from just a field. Arsenal continued to play their home games there for the next twenty years (with two exceptions in the 1894–95 season), until the move to north London in 1913.[130][131]  
  Widely referred to as Highbury, Arsenal Stadium was the club's home from September 1913 until May 2006. The original stadium was designed by the renowned football architect Archibald Leitch, and had a design common to many football grounds in the UK at the time, with a single covered stand and three open-air banks of terracing.[29] The entire stadium was given a massive overhaul in the 1930s: new Art Deco West and East stands were constructed, opening in 1932 and 1936 respectively, and a roof was added to the North Bank terrace, which was bombed during the Second World War and not restored until 1954.[29]  
  Highbury could hold more than 60,000 spectators at its peak, and had a capacity of 57,000 until the early 1990s. The Taylor Report and Premier League regulations obliged Arsenal to convert Highbury to an all-seater stadium in time for the 1993–94 season, thus reducing the capacity to 38,419 seated spectators.[132] This capacity had to be reduced further during Champions League matches to accommodate additional advertising boards, so much so that for two seasons, from 1998 to 2000, Arsenal played Champions League home matches at Wembley, which could house more than 70,000 spectators.[133]  
  Expansion of Highbury was restricted because the East Stand had been designated as a Grade II listed building and the other three stands were close to residential properties.[29] These limitations prevented the club from maximising matchday revenue during the 1990s and first decade of the 21st century, putting them in danger of being left behind in the football boom of that time.[134] After considering various options, in 2000 Arsenal proposed building a new 60,361-capacity stadium at Ashburton Grove, since named the Emirates Stadium, about 500 metres south-west of Highbury.[135] The project was initially delayed by red tape and rising costs,[136] and construction was completed in July 2006, in time for the start of the 2006–07 season.[137] The stadium was named after its sponsors, the airline company Emirates, with whom the club signed the largest sponsorship deal in English football history, worth around £100 million.[138] Some fans referred to the ground as Ashburton Grove, or the Grove, as they did not agree with corporate sponsorship of stadium names.[139] The stadium will be officially known as Emirates Stadium until at least 2028, and the airline will be the club's shirt sponsor until at least 2024.[140][141] From the start of the 2010–11 season on, the stands of the stadium have been officially known as North Bank, East Stand, West Stand and Clock end.[142] The capacity of the Emirates now stands at 60,704.[143]  
  Supporters and rivalries  
  Arsenal's fanbase are referred to as "Gooners" – the name derived from the club's nickname "The Gunners". Virtually all home matches sell out; in 2007–08 Arsenal had the second-highest average League attendance for an English club (60,070, which was 99.5% of available capacity),[149] and, as of 2015, the third-highest all-time average attendance.[150] Arsenal have the seventh highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund, Barcelona, Manchester United, Real Madrid, Bayern Munich and Schalke 04.[151][152][153][154] The club's location, adjoining wealthy areas such as Canonbury and Barnsbury, mixed areas such as Islington, Holloway, Highbury, and the adjacent London Borough of Camden, and largely working-class areas such as Finsbury Park and Stoke Newington, has meant that Arsenal's supporters have come from a variety of social classes. Much of the Afro-Caribbean support comes from the neighbouring London Borough of Hackney and a large portion of the South Asian Arsenal supporters commute to the stadium from Wembley Park, North West of the capital. There was also traditionally a large Irish community that followed Arsenal, with the surrounding Islington and particularly the nearby Archway area having a large community of residents with Irish heritage. But Irish migration to North London is recently much lower than in the 1960s or 1970s.  
  Like all major English football clubs, Arsenal have a number of domestic supporters' clubs, including the Arsenal Football Supporters' Club, which works closely with the club, and the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association, which maintains a more independent line. The Arsenal Supporters' Trust promotes greater participation in ownership of the club by fans. The club's supporters also publish fanzines such as The Gooner, Gunflash and the satirical Up The Arse!  
  There have always been Arsenal supporters outside London, and since the advent of satellite television, a supporter's attachment to a football club has become less dependent on geography. Consequently, Arsenal have a significant number of fans from beyond London and all over the world; in 2007, 24 UK, 37 Irish and 49 other overseas supporters' clubs were affiliated with the club.[155] A 2011 report by SPORT+MARKT estimated Arsenal's global fanbase at 113 million.[156] The club's social media activity was the fifth highest in world football during the 2014–15 season.[157]  
  Anthem  
  Other Songs  
  In addition to the usual English football chants, Arsenal's supporters sing "One-Nil to the Arsenal" (to the tune of "Go West") and also regularly sing "Who's that team they call the Arsenal", "Good Old Arsenal" (to the tune of "Rule, Britannia!") and "We're the North Bank/Clock End Highbury". The fans also chant "Boring, Boring Arsenal" in self-deprecating reference to Arsenal's reputation during the 1970s and 1980s as an overly defensive, cautious team.[161]  
  Rivalries  
  Arsenal's longest-running and deepest rivalry is with their nearest major neighbour, Tottenham Hotspur; matches between the two are referred to as the North London derby.[162] There also exists a rivalry between Arsenal and Chelsea. In addition, Arsenal and Manchester United developed a strong on-pitch rivalry in the late 1980s, which intensified in the early 2000s when both clubs were competing for the Premier League title. During the 2010s and now the 2020s, a competitive rivalry with Manchester City began during the Arteta era following a close title race in the 2022-23 Premier League season.[163][164][165]  
  Mascot  
  The club mascot is Gunnersaurus Rex, a smiling, 7-foot-tall green dinosaur, who first appeared at a home match against Manchester City in August 1994 (or 1993). He is based on a drawing by then-11-year-old Peter Lovell, whose design and another similar idea won a Junior Gunners contest; his official backstory is that he hatched from an egg found during renovations at Highbury.[166][167][168][169][170][171]  
  The same person, Jerry Quy, has been inside the suit from the start; in early October 2020, as part of cost-cutting brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, the club made him redundant from that and his other part-time job in supporter liaison, together with 55 full-time employees, although they later said Gunnersaurus could return after spectators were allowed back in stadiums.[170][172][173] An online fundraiser was begun for Quy,[173] and Mesut Özil offered to pay his salary himself as long as he remains with Arsenal.[174][175] In November 2020, in advance of COVID-19 regulations being relaxed to allow supporters to attend home games from 3 December, Arsenal announced that Gunnersaurus would return, to be played by a roster of people that could include Quy if he wished.[176][177]  
  Ownership and finances  
  The largest shareholder on the Arsenal board is American sports tycoon Stan Kroenke.[178] Kroenke first launched a bid for the club in April 2007,[179] and faced competition for shares from Red and White Securities, which acquired its first shares from David Dein in August 2007.[180] Red & White Securities was co-owned by Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov and London-based Iranian financier Farhad Moshiri, though Usmanov bought Moshiri's stake in 2016.[181] Kroenke came close to the 30% takeover threshold in November 2009, when he increased his holding to 18,594 shares (29.9%).[182][183] In April 2011, Kroenke achieved a full takeover by purchasing the shareholdings of Nina Bracewell-Smith and Danny Fiszman, taking his shareholding to 62.89%.[184][185] In May 2017, Kroenke owned 41,721 shares (67.05%) and Red & White Securities owned 18,695 shares (30.04%).[178] In January 2018, Kroenke expanded his ownership by buying twenty-two more shares, taking his total ownership to 67.09%.[186] In August 2018, Kroenke bought out Usmanov for £550m. Now owning more than 90% of the shares, he had the required stake to complete the buyout of the remaining shares and become the sole owner.[187] There has been criticism of Arsenal's poor performance since Kroenke took over, which has been attributed to his ownership.[188] Ivan Gazidis was the club's Chief executive from 2009 to 2018.[178][189]  
  Arsenal's parent company, Arsenal Holdings plc, operates as an unlisted public limited company, whose ownership is considerably different from that of other football clubs. Only 62,219 shares in Arsenal have been issued,[178] and they are not traded on a public exchange such as the FTSE or AIM; instead, they are traded relatively infrequently on the ICAP Securities and Derivatives Exchange, a specialist market. On 29 May 2017, a single share in Arsenal had a mid price of £18,000, which sets the club's market capitalisation value at approximately £1,119.9m.[190] Most football clubs are not listed on an exchange, which makes direct comparisons of their values difficult. Consultants Brand Finance valued the club's brand and intangible assets at $703m in 2015, and consider Arsenal an AAA global brand.[191] Business magazine Forbes valued Arsenal as a whole at $2.238 billion (£1.69 billion) in 2018, ranked third in English football.[192] Research by the Henley Business School ranked Arsenal second in English football, modelling the club's value at £1.118 billion in 2015.[193][194]  
  Arsenal's financial results for the 2019–20 season showed an after tax loss of £47.8m, due in part to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.[195] The Deloitte Football Money League is a publication that homogenises and compares clubs' annual revenue. Deloitte put Arsenal's footballing revenue in 2019 at £392.7m (€445.6m),[196] ranking Arsenal eleventh among world football clubs.[157] Arsenal and Deloitte both listed the match day revenue generated in 2019 by the Emirates Stadium as €109.2m (£96.2m).[196]  
  In popular culture  
  Partly due to their proximity to the Alexandra Palace transmitter, Arsenal have appeared in a number of media "firsts". On 22 January 1927, their match at Highbury against Sheffield United was the first English League match to be broadcast live on radio.[197][198] A decade later, on 16 September 1937, an exhibition match between Arsenal's first team and the reserves was the first football match in the world to be televised live.[197][199] Arsenal also featured in the first edition of the BBC's Match of the Day, which screened highlights of their match against Liverpool at Anfield on 22 August 1964.[197][200] Sky's coverage of Arsenal's January 2010 match against Manchester United was the first live public broadcast of a sports event on 3D television.[197][201]  
  As one of the most successful teams in the country, Arsenal have often featured when football is depicted in the arts in Britain. They formed the backdrop to one of the earliest football-related novels, The Arsenal Stadium Mystery (1939), which was made into a film in the same year.[202] The story centres on a friendly match between Arsenal and an amateur side, one of whose players is poisoned while playing. Many Arsenal players appeared as themselves in the film and manager George Allison was given a speaking part.[203] The book Fever Pitch by Nick Hornby was an autobiographical account of Hornby's life and relationship with football, and with Arsenal in particular. Published in 1992, it formed part of the revival and rehabilitation of football in British society during the 1990s.[204] The book was twice adapted for the cinema – the 1997 British film focuses on Arsenal's 1988–89 title win, and a 2005 American version features a fan of baseball's Boston Red Sox.[205]  
  Arsenal have often been stereotyped as a defensive and "boring" side, especially during the 1970s and 1980s.[206][207] In the 1997 film The Full Monty the principal characters move forward in a line and raise their hands, deliberately mimicking the Arsenal defence's offside trap, in an attempt to co-ordinate their striptease routine.[203] Fifteen years later an almost identical scene was included in the 2012 Disney science-fiction film John Carter (director and co-writer Andrew Stanton, a notable overseas supporter of the club), along with other visual cues and oblique dialogue hints and references to the club throughout the film.[208] Another film reference to the club's defence comes in the film Plunkett & Macleane, in which two characters are named Dixon and Winterburn after Arsenal's long-serving full backs – the right-sided Lee Dixon and the left-sided Nigel Winterburn.[203]  
  In August 2022, Amazon Prime Video released an eight-episode docuseries called All or Nothing: Arsenal.[209][210] It documented the club by spending time with the coaching staff and players behind the scenes both on and off the field throughout their 2021–22 season, in which they were the youngest team in the Premier League with an average starting age of 24 years and 308 days – more than a whole year younger than the next team.[211][212]  
  In the community  
  In 1985, Arsenal founded a community scheme, "Arsenal in the Community", which offered sporting, social inclusion, educational and charitable projects. The club support a number of charitable causes directly and in 1992 established The Arsenal Charitable Trust, which by 2006 had raised more than £2 million for local causes.[213] An ex-professional and celebrity football team associated with the club also raised money by playing charity matches.[214] The club launched the Arsenal for Everyone initiative in 2008 as an annual celebration of the diversity of the Arsenal family.[215] In the 2009–10 season Arsenal announced that they had raised a record breaking £818,897 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity. The original target was £500,000.[216] In 2022, Arsenal and Adidas partnered up to launch the "No More Red" campaign to support the long-standing work being done by Arsenal in the Community to help keep young people safe from knife crime and youth violence. To promote the event, the club launched an exclusive all white kit that was not commercially available and only awarded to individuals who are making a positive difference in the community.[217]  
  Save the Children has been Arsenal global charity partner since 2011 and have worked together in numerous projects to improve safety and well-being for vulnerable children in London and abroad. On 3 September 2016 The Arsenal Foundation has donated £1m to build football pitches for children in London, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan and Somalia thanks to The Arsenal Foundation Legends Match against Milan Glorie at the Emirates Stadium.[218] On 3 June 2018, Arsenal played Real Madrid in the Corazon Classic Match 2018 at the Bernabeu, where the proceeds went to Realtoo Real Madrid Foundation projects that are aimed at the most vulnerable children. In addition there will be a return meeting on 8 September 2018 at the Emirates stadium where proceeds will go towards the Arsenal foundation.[219]  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Academy  
  Players to have at least one first-team appearance for Arsenal.[234]  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Statistics and records  
  Arsenal's tally of 13 League Championships is the third highest in English football, after Manchester United (20) and Liverpool (19),[247] and they were the first club to reach a seventh and an eighth League Championship. As of June 2020, they are one of seven teams, the others being Manchester United, Blackburn Rovers, Chelsea, Manchester City, Leicester City and Liverpool, to have won the Premier League since its formation in 1992.[248]  
  They hold the highest number of FA Cup trophies, with 14.[249] The club is one of only six clubs to have won the FA Cup twice in succession, in 2002 and 2003, and 2014 and 2015.[250] Arsenal have achieved three League and FA Cup "Doubles" (in 1971, 1998 and 2002), a feat only previously achieved by Manchester United (in 1994, 1996 and 1999).[80][251] They were the first side in English football to complete the FA Cup and League Cup double, in 1993.[252] Arsenal were also the first London club to reach the final of the UEFA Champions League, in 2006, losing the final 2–1 to Barcelona.[253]  
  Arsenal have one of the best top-flight records in history, having finished below fourteenth only seven times. They have won the second most top flight league matches in English football, and have also accumulated the second most points,[4] whether calculated by two points per win[4] or by the contemporary points value.[254] They have been in the top flight for the most consecutive seasons (98 as of 2023–24).[3][255][256] Arsenal also have the highest average league finishing position for the 20th century, with an average league placement of 8.5.[5]  
  Arsenal hold the record for the longest run of unbeaten League matches (49 between May 2003 and October 2004).[79] This included all 38 matches of their title-winning 2003–04 season, when Arsenal became only the second club to finish a top-flight campaign unbeaten, after Preston North End (who played only 22 matches) in 1888–89.[78][257] They also hold the record for the longest top flight win streak.[258] Arsenal set a Champions League record during the 2005–06 season by going ten matches without conceding a goal, beating the previous best of seven set by AC Milan. They went a record total stretch of 995 minutes without letting an opponent score; the streak ended in the final, when Samuel Eto'o scored a 76th-minute equaliser for Barcelona.[81]  
  David O'Leary holds the record for Arsenal appearances, having played 722 first-team matches between 1975 and 1993. Fellow centre half and former captain Tony Adams comes second, having played 669 times. The record for a goalkeeper is held by David Seaman, with 564 appearances.[259] Thierry Henry is the club's top goalscorer with 228 goals in all competitions between 1999 and 2012;[246] he surpassed Ian Wright's total of 185 in October 2005.[260] Wright's record had stood since September 1997, when he overtook the longstanding total of 178 goals set by winger Cliff Bastin in 1939.[261] Henry also holds the club record for goals scored in the League, with 175,[246] a record that had been held by Bastin until February 2006.[262] Declan Rice holds the Arsenal record signing price after a deal with West Ham United was completed in July 2023, for an initial £100 million. This easily surpassed the former record of £72 million for Nicolas Pepe.  
  Arsenal's record home attendance is 73,707, for a UEFA Champions League match against Lens on 25 November 1998 at Wembley, where the club formerly played home European matches because of the limits on Highbury's capacity. The record attendance for an Arsenal match at Highbury is 73,295, for a 0–0 draw against Sunderland on 9 March 1935,[259] while that at Emirates Stadium is 60,161, for a 2–2 draw with Manchester United on 3 November 2007.[263]  
  Chart showing Arsenal's league positions since admission to the Football League in 1893  
  Honours  
  Arsenal's first ever silverware was won as the Royal Arsenal in 1890. The Kent Junior Cup, won by Royal Arsenal's reserves, was the club's first trophy, while the first team's first trophy came three weeks later when they won the Kent Senior Cup.[264][265] Their first national senior honour came in 1930, when they won the FA Cup.[266] The club enjoyed further success in the 1930s, winning another FA Cup and five Football League First Division titles.[51][267] Arsenal won their first league and cup double in the 1970–71 season and twice repeated the feat, in 1997–98 and 2001–02, as well as winning a cup double of the FA Cup and League Cup in 1992–93.[268] The 2003–04 season was the only 38-match league season unbeaten in English football history. A special gold version of the Premier League trophy was commissioned and presented to the club the following season.[269]  
  Other  
  When the FA Cup was the only national football association competition available to Arsenal, the other football association competitions were County Cups, and they made up many of the matches the club played during a season.[265] Arsenal's first first-team trophy was a County Cup, the inaugural Kent Senior Cup.[17] Arsenal became ineligible for the London Cups when the club turned professional in 1891, and rarely participated in County Cups after this.[19][271] Due to the club's original location within the borders of both the London and Kent Football Associations,[272] Arsenal competed in and won trophies organised by each.[17][271]  
  During Arsenal's history, the club has participated in and won a variety of pre-season and friendly honours. These include Arsenal's own pre-season competition the Emirates Cup, begun in 2007.[273] During the wars, previous competitions were widely suspended and the club had to participate in wartime competitions. During WWII, Arsenal won several of these.  
  Notes  
  ^ Woolwich and Plumstead were officially part of Kent until the creation of the County of London in 1889. The Arsenal History provides primary sources on the name, first meeting, and first match.[12] Bernard Joy says Danskin was captain at founding.[13] Danskin was made official captain the next month.[14]  
  ^ The new shirts are exhibited in The Arsenal Shirt.[38] Newspaper accounts of the addition of white sleeves are provided by Mark Andrews.[39] The contemporary discussion around the first use of shirt numbers, and its initial trial by Chelsea F.C., is provided by Neil Glackin.[40]  
  ^ Martin Keown was the 'fifth' member of the Back Four, but did not play for the club between 1986 and 1993.  
  ^ These changes have received contemporary attention,[70] and later praise[71] and skepticism.[72] For context of the broader use of science in English football, see Soccer Science.[73]  
  ^ Several analyses indicate strong league performance across the Wenger period, given Arsenal's footballing outlays, including a regression analysis on wage bills,[74] regression on transfer spending,[75] regression on both,[76] and a bootstrapping approach for the period 2004–09.[77]  
  ^ "Herbert Chapman". National Football Museum. Archived from the original on 18 April 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2016.  
  ^ Masters, Roy (1995). The Royal Arsenal, Woolwich. Britain in Old Photographs. Strood: Sutton Publishing. p. 91. ISBN 0-7509-0894-7.  
  ^ a b c Kelly, Andy; Andrews, Mark; Attwood, Tony (1 August 2012). Woolwich Arsenal FC: 1893–1915 The club that changed football. Hamilton House. ISBN 978-1860837876.  
  ^ Page, Simon (18 October 2006). Herbert Chapman: The First Great Manager. Birmingham: Heroes Publishing. p. 139. ISBN 978-0-9543884-5-4.  
  ^ Wilson, Jonathan (2013). Inverting the Pyramid: The History of Football Tactics (Fifth anniversary fully revised and updated ed.). Orion Publishing Group, Limited. pp. 42–56. ISBN 978-1-4091-4586-8.  
  ^ Elkin & Shakeshaft 2014. The Arsenal Shirt: Iconic Match Worn Shirts from the History of the Gunners  
  ^ "Joe Shaw". Spartacus Educational. Archived from the original on 22 July 2017. Retrieved 1 October 2023.  
  ^ "George Allison". Spartacus Educational. Archived from the original on 28 November 2022. Retrieved 1 October 2023.  
  ^ "Tom Whittaker". Spartacus Educational. Archived from the original on 22 April 2023. Retrieved 1 October 2023.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler 2011, p. 76. Arsenal 125 Years in the Making: The Official Illustrated History 1886–2011  
  ^ Sowman & Wilson 2016. Arsenal: The Long Sleep 1953 – 1970: A view from the terrace  
  ^ a b Ponting, Ivan (23 October 2001). "Bertie Mee". The Independent. Archived from the original on 6 March 2016. Retrieved 4 July 2016.  
  ^ Media Group, Arsenal (30 June 2008). "The Managers". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 5 April 2016. Retrieved 5 July 2016.  
  ^ A 2005 poll of English football fans rated the 1979 FA Cup Final the 15th greatest game of all time. Reference: Winter, Henry (19 April 2005). "Classic final? More like a classic five minutes". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 11 October 2007. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ "Graham's Glory Years". Graham's Glory Years. 10 May 2017. Archived from the original on 11 June 2023. Retrieved 1 October 2023.  
  ^ Moore, Glenn (13 August 1996). "Rioch at odds with the system". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on 3 September 2018. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Kuper, Simon; Szymanski, Stefan (24 May 2012). "Chapter 6: Do managers matter? The cult of the white messiah". Soccernomics (revised and expanded ed.). HarperCollins Publishers. ISBN 978-0-00-746688-7.  
  ^ Rodríguez, Plácido; Késenne, Stefan; García, Jaume (30 September 2013). "Chapter 3: Wages transfers and the variation of team performance in the English Premier League". The Econometrics of Sport. Edward Elgar Publishing. pp. 53–62. ISBN 978-1-78100-286-5.  
  ^ a b Fraser, Andrew (25 October 2004). "Arsenal run ends at 49". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2008.  
  ^ a b "Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Richard Rundle. Archived from the original on 6 November 2009. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ "Welcome Unai". Welcome Unai. 28 May 2023. Archived from the original on 23 May 2018. Retrieved 23 May 2018.  
  ^ "The Super League". thesuperleague.com. Archived from the original on 18 April 2021. Retrieved 20 April 2021.  
  ^ a b c "The Crest". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 12 August 2008. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ "Crestfallen" (PDF). Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 November 2006. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler 2011, p. 20. Arsenal 125 Years in the Making: The Official Illustrated History 1886–2011  
  ^ a b c "Arsenal". Historical Football Kits. D & M Moor. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 8 December 2006.  
  ^ "Hibernian". Historical Football Kits. D & M Moor. Archived from the original on 21 August 2008. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ a b "FA Cup Finals". Historical Football Kits. Archived from the original on 21 September 2013. Retrieved 4 October 2013.  
  ^ "Arsenal Change Kits". Historical Football Kits. D & M Moor. Archived from the original on 19 September 2018. Retrieved 27 November 2009.  
  ^ "Club Charter". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 12 August 2008. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ "Arsenal". Historical Football Kits. Archived from the original on 27 May 2019. Retrieved 27 January 2022.  
  ^ Dawes, Brian (2006). "The 'E' Word". Arsenal World. Footymad. Archived from the original on 8 October 2006. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ Taylor, David (21 October 1999). "Arsenal gets a complex". The Architects' Journal. Archived from the original on 6 September 2018. Retrieved 20 January 2010.  
  ^ "All Time League Attendance Records". nufc.com. NUFC. 22 September 2015. Archived from the original on 6 April 2016. Retrieved 6 April 2016. Some pre-war attendance figures used by this source were estimates and may not be entirely accurate.  
  ^ "Fans Report 2006/2007" (Word document). Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 10 September 2008. Retrieved 7 September 2008.  
  ^ Coggin, Stewart. "The North London derby". Premier League. Archived from the original on 8 August 2008. Retrieved 7 September 2008.  
  ^ "Football 50 2015" (PDF). brandfinance.com. Brand Finance. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 April 2016. Retrieved 22 March 2016.  
  ^ Markham, Tom. "WHAT'S YOUR CLUB REALLY WORTH?". sportingintelligence.com. Sporting Intelligence. Archived from the original on 8 April 2016. Retrieved 28 March 2016.  
  ^ "Nick Hornby". The Guardian. London. 22 July 2008. Archived from the original on 3 June 2013. Retrieved 7 September 2008. Critically acclaimed and commercial dynamite, Fever Pitch helped to make football trendy and explain its appeal to the soccerless  
  ^ Levy, Glen (5 July 2010). "Fever Pitch". Time. Archived from the original on 27 September 2023. Retrieved 13 September 2017.  
  ^ "Academy". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2021. Retrieved 31 January 2024.  
  ^ Ross, James M (28 August 2009). "England – List of Champions". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 30 July 2022. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Ross, James M (12 June 2009). "England FA Challenge Cup Finals". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 13 January 2010. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Ross, James M (12 June 2009). "England FA Challenge Cup Finals". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 24 October 2008. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Stokkermans, Karel (24 September 2009). "Doing the Double: Countrywise Records". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 26 November 2015. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Collins, Roy (20 May 2007). "Mourinho collects his consolation prize". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022. Retrieved 6 December 2009. Chelsea's Cup came wrapped in an extra ribbon, only the second team after Arsenal in 1993 to win both domestic cups.  
  ^ James, Josh (18 June 2013). "All-time Arsenal". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 22 June 2023. Retrieved 22 June 2023.  
  ^ "49 Unbeaten". Arsenal F.C. 1 June 2017. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020. Retrieved 14 April 2018.  
  ^ "Records". statto.com. Archived from the original on 7 November 2011. Retrieved 22 March 2016.  
  ^ a b "Club Records". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ "Arsenal 2–3 West Ham". BBC Sport. 1 February 2006. Archived from the original on 27 March 2012. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ "Double top Gunners". BBC Sport. 9 May 2002. Archived from the original on 23 April 2003. Retrieved 18 September 2015.  
  ^ "Honours". Arsenal F.C. Retrieved 6 August 2023.  
  ^ a b Kelly, Andy (24 February 2017). "Arsenal's First Superstar". The Arsenal History. Archived from the original on 22 September 2017. Retrieved 22 September 2017.  
  Works cited  
  Attwood, Tony; Kelly, Andy; Andrews, Mark (1 August 2012). Woolwich Arsenal FC: 1893–1915 The club that changed football (first ed.). First and Best in Education. ISBN 978-1-86083-787-6.  
  Elkin, James; Shakeshaft, Simon (1 November 2014). The Arsenal Shirt: Iconic Match Worn Shirts from the History of the Gunners. Vision Sports Publishing. ISBN 978-1-909534-26-1.  
  Soar, Phil; Tyler, Martin (3 October 2011). Arsenal 125 Years in the Making: The Official Illustrated History 1886–2011. Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-62353-3.  
  Sowman, John; Wilson, Bob (18 January 2016). Arsenal: The Long Sleep 1953 – 1970: A view from the terrace. Hamilton House. ISBN 978-1-86083-837-8.  
  Whittaker, Tom; Peskett, Roy (1957). Tom Whittaker's Arsenal Story (First ed.). Sporting Handbooks.  
  Further reading  
  Andrews, Mark; Kelly, Andy; Stillman, Tim (8 November 2018). Royal Arsenal: Champions of the South (First ed.). legends publishing. ISBN 9781906796594.  
  Callow, Nick (11 April 2013). The Official Little Book of Arsenal. Carlton Books Ltd. ISBN 978-1-84732-680-5.  
  Fynn, Alex; Whitcher, Kevin (18 August 2011). Arsènal: The Making of a Modern Superclub (3rd ed.). Vision Sports Publishing. ISBN 978-1-907637-31-5.  
  Glanville, Brian (2011). Arsenal Football Club: From Woolwich to Whittaker. GCR Books. ISBN 978-0-9559211-7-9.  
  Hayes, Dean (2007). Arsenal: The Football Facts. John Blake. ISBN 978-1-84454-433-2.  
  Lane, David (28 August 2014). Arsenal 'Til I Die: The Voices of Arsenal FC Supporters. Meyer & Meyer Sport. ISBN 978-1-78255-038-9.  
  Maidment, Jem (2008). The Official Arsenal Encyclopedia: A Comprehensive A–Z of London's Most Successful Club (revised ed.). Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-61888-1.  
  Roper, Alan (1 November 2003). Real Arsenal Story: In the Days of Gog. Wherry Publishing. ISBN 978-0-9546259-0-0.  
  Spragg, Iain; Clarke, Adrian (8 October 2015). The Official Arsenal FC Book of Records (2 ed.). Carlton Books Ltd. ISBN 978-1-78097-668-6.  
  Spurling, Jon (21 August 2014). Highbury: The Story of Arsenal in N.5. Orion. ISBN 978-1-4091-5306-1.  
  Stammers, Steve (7 November 2008). Arsenal: The Official Biography: The Compelling Story of an Amazing Club (First ed.). Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-61892-8.  
  Watt, Tom (13 October 1995). The End: 80 Years of Life on the Terraces. Mainstream Publishing Company, Limited. ISBN 978-1-85158-793-3.  
  External links  
  Wikimedia Commons has media related to Arsenal F.C..  
  Arsenal F.C.  
  Association football club in London, England / From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia  
  Dear Wikiwand AI, let's keep it short by simply answering these key questions:  
  Can you list the top facts and stats about Arsenal F.C.?  
  Arsenal was the first club from southern England to join the Football League in 1893, and it reached the First Division in 1904. Relegated only once, in 1913, it continues the longest streak in the top division,[3] and has won the second-most top-flight matches in English football history.[4] In the 1930s, Arsenal won five League Championships and two FA Cups, and another FA Cup and two Championships after the war. In 1970–71, it won its first League and FA Cup Double. Between 1989 and 2005, they won five League titles and five FA Cups, including two more Doubles. They completed the 20th century with the highest average league position.[5] Between 1998 and 2017, Arsenal qualified for the UEFA Champions League for nineteen consecutive seasons.  
  In 1886, munitions workers at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich founded the club as Dial Square. In 1913 the club crossed the city to Arsenal Stadium in Highbury, becoming close neighbours of Tottenham Hotspur, and creating the North London derby. Herbert Chapman, who changed the fortunes of Arsenal forever, won the club its first silverware, and his legacy brought the club domination in the 1930s. He helped introduce the WM formation, floodlights, and shirt numbers;[6] he also added the white sleeves and brighter red to the club's jersey.[7] Arsène Wenger is the club's longest-serving manager and has won the most trophies for it. He won a record seven FA Cups, and his title-winning team set an English record for the longest top-flight unbeaten league run at 49 games between 2003 and 2004, receiving the nickname The Invincibles.  
  In 2006, the club moved to the nearby Emirates Stadium. With an annual revenue of £367.1m in the 2021–22 season,[8] Arsenal was estimated to be worth US$2.26 billion by Forbes, making it the world's tenth-most valuable football club,[9] while it is one of the most followed on social media.[10] The motto of the club is Victoria Concordia Crescit, Latin for "Victory Through Harmony".  
  History  
  1886–1912: from Dial Square to Arsenal  
  In October 1886, Scotsman David Danskin and fifteen fellow munitions workers in Woolwich formed Dial Square Football Club, named after a workshop at the heart of the Royal Arsenal complex. Each member contributed sixpence and Danskin also added three shillings to help form the club.[11][note 1] Dial Square played their first match on 11 December 1886 against Eastern Wanderers and won 6–0.[15] The club had renamed to Royal Arsenal by January 1887,[14][16] and its first home was Plumstead Common,[14] though they spent most of their time playing at the Manor Ground. Their first trophies were the Kent Senior Cup and London Charity Cup in 1889–90 and the London Senior Cup in 1890–91; these were the only county association trophies Arsenal won during their time in South East London.[17][18] In 1891, Royal Arsenal became the first London club to turn professional.[19]  
  Royal Arsenal renamed for a second time upon becoming a limited liability company in 1893. They registered their new name, Woolwich Arsenal, with the Football League when the club ascended later that year.[20][21]: 5–21 Woolwich Arsenal was the first southern member of the Football League, starting out in the Second Division and reaching the First Division in 1904. Falling attendances, due to financial difficulties among the munitions workers and the arrival of more accessible football clubs elsewhere in the city, led the club close to bankruptcy by 1910.[22][21]: 112–149 Businessmen Henry Norris and William Hall became involved in the club, and sought to move them elsewhere.[23][21]: 22–42  
  1912–1925: Bank of England club  
  In 1913, soon after relegation back to the Second Division, the club moved across the river to the new Arsenal Stadium in Highbury.[24][25][26] In 1919, the Football League controversially voted to promote The Arsenal, instead of relegated local rivals Tottenham Hotspur, into the newly enlarged First Division, despite only finishing fifth in the Second Division's last pre-war season of 1914–15. Later that year, The Arsenal started dropping "The" in official documents, gradually shifting its name for the final time towards Arsenal, as it is generally known today.[27]  
  With a new home and First Division football, attendances were more than double those at the Manor Ground, and Arsenal's budget grew rapidly.[28][29] With record-breaking spending and gate receipts, Arsenal quickly became known as the Bank of England club.[30][31]  
  1925–1934: Herbert Chapman's legendary Gunners  
  Arsenal's location and record-breaking salary offer lured star Huddersfield Town manager Herbert Chapman in 1925.[32][33] Over the next five years, Chapman built a revolutionary new Arsenal. Firstly, he appointed an enduring new trainer Tom Whittaker who would one day rise to become a fabled Arsenal manager himself.[34] With the help of player Charlie Buchan, implemented the nascent WM formation which would serve as a stable bedrock to his outfit.[35][36] He also captured generational young talents such as Cliff Bastin and Eddie Hapgood, whilst also lavishing Highbury's high income on stars such as David Jack and Alex James.  
  Transformed, Chapman's Arsenal claimed their first national trophy, the FA Cup in 1930, and League Championships followed in 1930–31 and 1932–33.[37] Chapman also presided over off-pitch changes: white sleeves and shirt numbers were added to the kit;[note 2] a Tube station was named after the club;[41][42] and the first of two opulent, Art Deco stands was completed, with some of the first floodlights in English football.[29] Suddenly, in the middle of the 1933–34 season, Chapman died of pneumonia.[43]  
  1934–1947: Shaw, Allison & the Second World War  
  Chapman's death meant work was left to his colleagues Joe Shaw and George Allison, with both proving to be shrewd & consummate custodians of Chapman's excellent Arsenal team, seeing out a hat-trick of league wins with the 1933–34, 1934–35, and 1937–38 titles, and then furthermore winning the 1936 FA Cup.[44][45]  
  World War II meant the Football League was suspended for seven years. While Arsenal were paraded by the nation as a symbol of solidarity with war efforts, the war took a huge toll on the team as the club had had more players killed than any top flight club.[46] Furthermore, debt from reconstructing an ambitious North Bank Stand redevelopment greatly bled Arsenal's resources.[47][29]  
  1947–1962: Tom Whittaker's meteoric Gunners  
  Despite this period of turbulence & churn, Arsenal returned to win the league in the second post-war season of 1947–48. This was Tom Whittaker's first season as manager, and meant the club equalled the champions of England record.[48] Tom Whittaker, despite his disarming humble & modest disposition, was oft-referred to as the "brains" behind the charismatic Chapman's legendary Arsenal side.[49][50] He gathered a successful & highly skilled Arsenal side in spite of greatly limited resources, with a fiery and expansive style that drove great fanfare at the time.[51]  
  They won a third FA Cup in 1950, and then won a record-breaking seventh championship in 1952–53 making Arsenal the most successful team in English history at the time.[52][53]  
  1962–1984: Billy Wright, Bertie Mee and Neill's cohorts  
  Arsenal were not to win the League or the FA Cup for another 18 years. The '53 Champions squad had aged, and the club failed to attract strong enough replacements.[54] Although Arsenal were competitive during these years, their fortunes had waned; the club spent most of the 1950s and 1960s in mid-table mediocrity.[55] Even former England captain Billy Wright could not bring the club any success as manager, in a stint between 1962 and 1966.[56]  
  1984–1996: George Graham's Arsenal  
  One of Mee's double winners, George Graham, returned as manager in 1986, with Arsenal winning their first League Cup in 1987, Graham's first season in charge. New signings Nigel Winterburn, Lee Dixon and Steve Bould had joined the club by 1988 to complete the "famous Back Four", led by homegrown player Tony Adams.[63][note 3] Graham's credo of prioritising defensive excellence seemingly clashed with the club's traditional expansive motif and with the young player demographic at the club at the time; however, it quickly gained a cult following after initial successes.[64]  
  1996–2018: Wenger years  
  The club metamorphosed during the tenure of French manager Arsène Wenger, who was appointed in 1996. Attacking football,[69] an overhaul of dietary and fitness practices,[note 4] and efficiency with money[note 5] defined his reign. Accumulating key players from Wenger's homeland, such as Patrick Vieira and Thierry Henry, Arsenal won a second League and Cup double in 1997–98 and a third in 2001–02. In addition, the club reached the final of the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup, were victorious in the 2003 and 2005 FA Cup finals, and won the Premier League in 2003–04 without losing a single match, an achievement which earned the side the nickname "The Invincibles".[78] This feat came within a run of 49 league matches unbeaten from 7 May 2003 to 24 October 2004, a national record.[79]  
  Arsenal finished in either first or second place in the league in eight of Wenger's first nine seasons at the club, although they never won the title in two consecutive seasons.[80] The club had never progressed beyond the quarter-finals of the Champions League until 2005–06; in that season they became the first club from London to reach the final in the competition's fifty-year history, but were beaten 2–1 by Barcelona.[81] In July 2006, they moved into the Emirates Stadium, after 93 years at Highbury.[82] Arsenal reached the final of the 2007 and 2011 League Cups, losing 2–1 to Chelsea and Birmingham City respectively. The club had not gained a trophy since the 2005 FA Cup until, spearheaded by club record acquisition Mesut Özil, Arsenal beat Hull City in the 2014 FA Cup Final, coming back from a 2–0 deficit to win the match 3–2.[83] A year later, Arsenal completed another victorious FA Cup campaign,[84] and became the most successful club in the tournament's history by winning their 13th FA Cup in 2016–17. However, in that same season Arsenal finished fifth in the league, the first time they had finished outside the top four since before Wenger arrived in 1996.[85] In his 21st and final season, Arsenal under Arsene Wenger finished sixth and won the community shield.[86][87] Wenger departed Arsenal following the end of the season, on 13 May 2018.[88]  
  2018–2020: post-Wenger revolution  
  After conducting an overhaul in the club's operating model to coincide with Wenger's departure, Spaniard Unai Emery was named as the club's new head coach on 23 May 2018. He became the club's first ever 'head coach' and second manager from outside the United Kingdom.[89][90] In Emery's first season, Arsenal finished fifth in the Premier League and as runner-up in the Europa League.[91][92] On 29 November 2019, Emery was dismissed as manager and former player and assistant first team coach Freddie Ljungberg was appointed as interim head coach.[93][94][95]  
  2020–: Arteta era  
  On 20 December 2019, Arsenal appointed former club captain Mikel Arteta as the new head coach.[96][97] Arsenal finished the league season in eighth, their lowest finish since 1994–95, but beat Chelsea 2–1 to earn a record-extending 14th FA Cup win.[98] After the season, Arteta's title was changed from head coach to manager.[99] On 18 April 2021, Arsenal were announced as a founding club of the breakaway European competition The Super League;[100] they withdrew from the competition two days later amid near-universal condemnation.[101] Arsenal finished the 2020–21 season in eighth place once again, not qualifying for a European competition for the first time in 26 years.[102] In the 2022–23 Premier League season, Arsenal returned to the Champions League by coming second to Manchester City. Arsenal led the league for most of the season, but suffered a series of losses at the end of the run, setting a record for most time spent on top of the table without actually winning the league.[103]  
  Crest  
  Crests of Arsenal F.C. prior to current current crest  
  Royal Arsenal's first crest, adopted in 1888, two years after the formation of the club  
  Unveiled in 1888, Royal Arsenal's first crest featured three cannons viewed from above, pointing northwards, similar to the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Woolwich (nowadays transferred to the coat of arms of the Royal Borough of Greenwich). These can sometimes be mistaken for chimneys, but the presence of a carved lion's head and a cascabel on each are clear indicators that they are cannons.[104] This was dropped after the move to Highbury in 1913, only to be reinstated in 1922, when the club adopted a crest featuring a single cannon, pointing eastwards, with the club's nickname, The Gunners, inscribed alongside it; this crest only lasted until 1925, when the cannon was reversed to point westward and its barrel slimmed down.[104]  
  In 1949, the club unveiled a modernised crest featuring the same style of cannon below the club's name, set in blackletter typography, and above the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Islington and a scroll inscribed with the club's newly adopted Latin motto, Victoria Concordia Crescit (VCC) – "victory comes from harmony" – coined by the club's programme editor Harry Homer.[104][105] For the first time, the crest was rendered in colour, which varied slightly over the crest's lifespan, finally becoming red, gold and green. Because of the numerous revisions of the crest, Arsenal were unable to copyright it.[106] Although the club had managed to register the crest as a trademark, and had fought (and eventually won) a long legal battle with a local street trader who sold "unofficial" Arsenal merchandise,[107] Arsenal eventually sought a more comprehensive legal protection. Therefore, in 2002 they introduced a new crest featuring more modern curved lines and a simplified style, which was copyrightable.[108] The cannon once again faces east, and the club's name is written in a sans-serif typeface above the cannon. Green was replaced by dark blue. The new crest was criticised by some supporters; the Arsenal Independent Supporters' Association claimed that the club had ignored much of Arsenal's history and tradition with such a radical modern design, and that fans had not been properly consulted on the issue.[109] Until the 1960s, a badge was worn on the playing shirt only for high-profile matches such as FA Cup finals, usually in the form of a monogram of the club's initials in red on a white background.[110]  
  The monogram theme was developed into an Art Deco-style badge on which the letters A and C framed a football rather than the letter F, the whole set within a hexagonal border. This early example of a corporate logo, introduced as part of Herbert Chapman's rebranding of the club in the 1930s, was used not only on Cup Final shirts but as a design feature throughout Highbury Stadium, including above the main entrance and inlaid in the floors.[111] From 1967, a white cannon was regularly worn on the shirts, until replaced by the club crest, sometimes with the addition of the nickname "The Gunners", in the 1990s.[110]  
  In the 2011–12 season, Arsenal celebrated their 125th anniversary. The celebrations included a modified version of the current crest worn on their jerseys for the season. The crest was all-white, surrounded by 15 oak leaves to the right and 15 laurel leaves to the left. The oak leaves represent the 15 founding members of the club who met at the Royal Oak pub. The 15 laurel leaves represent the design detail on the six pence pieces paid by the founding fathers to establish the club. The laurel leaves also represent strength. To complete the crest, 1886 and 2011 are shown on either sides of the motto "Forward" at the bottom of the crest.[112]  
  Colours  
  Arsenal's original home colours. The team wore a similar kit (but with redcurrant socks) during the 2005–06 season.  
  White sleeves first appeared on the shirt in 1933.  
  Yellow shirt with blue trim and blue shorts are Arsenal's traditional away colours.  
  Since the 1990s, Blue has been prominently used for either the away or third kit.  
  For much of Arsenal's history, their home colours have been bright red shirts with white sleeves and white shorts, though this has not always been the case. The choice of red is in recognition of a charitable donation from Nottingham Forest, soon after Arsenal's foundation in 1886. Two of Dial Square's founding members, Fred Beardsley and Morris Bates, were former Forest players who had moved to Woolwich for work. As they put together the first team in the area, no kit could be found, so Beardsley and Bates wrote home for help and received a set of kit and a ball.[113] The shirt was redcurrant, a dark shade of red, and was worn with white shorts and socks with blue and white hoops.[114][115]  
  In 1933, Herbert Chapman, wanting his players to be more distinctly dressed, updated the kit, adding white sleeves and changing the shade to a brighter pillar box red. Two possibilities have been suggested for the origin of the white sleeves. One story reports that Chapman noticed a supporter in the stands wearing a red sleeveless sweater over a white shirt; another was that he was inspired by a similar outfit worn by the cartoonist Tom Webster, with whom Chapman played golf.[116] Regardless of which story is true, the red-and-white shirts have come to define Arsenal, and the team have worn that combination ever since that time, aside from two seasons. The first was 1966–67, when Arsenal wore all-red shirts;[115] this proved unpopular, and the white sleeves returned the following season. The second was 2005–06, the last season that Arsenal played at Highbury, when the team wore commemorative redcurrant shirts similar to those worn in 1913, their first season in the stadium; the side reverted to their normal colours at the start of the next season.[116] In the 2008–09 season, Arsenal replaced the traditional all-white sleeves with red sleeves that bore a broad white stripe.[115]  
  Arsenal's home colours have been the inspiration for at least three other clubs. In 1909, Sparta Prague adopted a dark red kit like the one Arsenal wore at the time;[116] in 1938, Hibernian adopted the design of the Arsenal shirt sleeves in their own green-and-white strip.[117] In 1941, Luis Robledo, an England-schooled founder of Santa Fe and a fan of Arsenal, selected the main colours for his newly created team. In 1920, Sporting Clube de Braga's manager returned from a game at Highbury and changed his team's green kit to a duplicate of Arsenal's red-with-white-sleeves-and-shorts, giving rise to the team's nickname of Os Arsenalistas.[118] These teams still wear those designs to this day.  
  For many years Arsenal's away colours were white or navy blue. However, in 1968 the FA banned navy shirts (they looked too similar to referees' black kit), so in the 1969–70 season Arsenal introduced an away kit of yellow shirts with blue shorts. This kit was worn in the 1971 FA Cup Final when Arsenal beat Liverpool to secure the double for the first time in their history. The yellow and blue strip became almost as famous as their iconic red-and-white home kit.[119][120] Arsenal reached the FA Cup final again the following year wearing the red-and-white home strip and were beaten by Leeds United. Arsenal then competed in three consecutive FA Cup finals between 1978 and 1980 wearing their "lucky" yellow and blue strip,[119] which remained the club's away strip until the release of a green and navy away kit in 1982–83. The following season, Arsenal returned to the yellow and blue scheme, albeit with a darker shade of blue than before.  
  When Nike took over from Adidas as Arsenal's kit provider in 1994, Arsenal's away colours were again changed to two-tone blue shirts and shorts. Since the advent of the lucrative replica kit market, the away kits have been changed regularly, with Arsenal usually releasing both away and third choice kits. During this period the designs have been either all blue designs, or variations on the traditional yellow and blue, such as the metallic gold and navy strip used in the 2001–02 season, the yellow and dark grey used from 2005 to 2007, and the yellow and maroon of 2010 to 2013.[121] Until 2014, the away kit was changed every season, and the outgoing away kit became the third-choice kit if a new home kit was being introduced in the same year.[122]  
  After Puma began manufacturing Arsenal's kits in 2014, new home, away and third kits were released every season. In the 2017–18 season, Puma released a new colour scheme for the away and third kits. The away kit was a light blue, which faded to a darker blue near the bottom, while the third kit was black with red highlight. Puma returned to the original colour scheme for the 2018–19 season.[123]  
  From the 2019–20 season Arsenal's kits are manufactured by Adidas.[124] In the 2020–21 season, Adidas unveiled the new away kit to mark the 15-year anniversary of leaving Highbury. The new away kit is white, with a marbled pattern to replicate the iconic marble hall in the East stand of Highbury.[125]  
  Arsenal FC Kit History  
  Dial Square (1886-1887) · Royal Arsenal (1887-1893) · Woolwich Arsenal (1893-1914)  
  Arsenal is a professional football club based in Holloway, London, England. The club was founded in 1886 and has a long and successful history, having won 13 English league titles, 14 FA Cups, and two... League Cups. Arsenal's home stadium is the Emirates Stadium, which has a capacity of over 60,000 spectators and is one of the largest and most modern football stadiums in England. Arsenal's home kits are traditionally red and white. The club has had a number of different kit manufacturers over the years, including Adidas, Nike, and Puma. The current kit manufacturer is Adidas. There was one special occasion in the 2005-06 season, the club's last season in the Highbury before it was demolished. To bid farewell, Arsenal paid homage to their first-ever jersey worn in this stadium in 1913 with a fully burgundy one. Traditionally, Arsenal's away shirt is white, navy or yellow, but since the 2010s the colour combinations are becoming more and more extraordinary. More  
  Discover the Legacy: Arsenal History & Milestones  
  Arsenal Football Club boasts a storied past filled with remarkable achievements and historic moments, making it one of the most revered clubs in football history. From its humble beginnings in 1886 to its current status as one of the top clubs in the world, Arsenal has left an indelible mark on the sport.  
  Arsenal History: Quick Guide  
  Arsenal Football Club has a rich history that dates back to 1886.  
  The club’s current home, the Emirates Stadium, replaced the iconic Highbury fortress in 2006.  
  Arsenal has achieved notable milestones, including winning the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1970 and securing their first League and FA Cup double in 1971.  
  Under the management of George Graham in the 1980s, Arsenal won two League titles, two FA Cups, and the Cup Winners’ Cup.  
  Arsène Wenger’s tenure as manager from 1996 to 2018 was marked by remarkable success, including three league and cup doubles and an unbeaten Premier League season in 2003-04.  
  The Emirates Stadium, apart from being a football venue, hosts various concerts and events.  
  Arsenal’s ongoing challenge is to successfully transition from Wenger’s era to a new chapter in the club’s history.  
  From Humble Beginnings to Highbury Fortress  
  Founded in 1886 as Dial Square, Arsenal has a long-standing tradition that traces back to the club’s humble beginnings playing at different grounds before moving to Highbury in 1913. This move marked a significant chapter in Arsenal’s history, as Highbury became the fortress where the club established itself as a football powerhouse.  
  At Highbury, Arsenal experienced great success, winning their first major trophies and solidifying their place among the elite. The club’s iconic red and white crest, featuring the renowned cannon, was also introduced during this period and has since become a symbol of Arsenal’s rich heritage.  
  During their time at Highbury, Arsenal enjoyed memorable moments, including League and FA Cup triumphs and notable European campaigns. The stadium itself became a historic venue, known for its unique features such as the grand Art Deco East and West stands, which added to Arsenal’s aura and legacy.  
  The Highbury Experience  
  Highbury was more than just a stadium; it was an experience that captured the hearts of Arsenal fans. The intimate atmosphere, with the stands being close to the pitch, created an electric ambiance during matches. The famous North Bank and Clock End stands were filled with passionate supporters who sang their hearts out, contributing to the vibrant spirit of the club.  
  Walking into Highbury was like entering a sacred place of football. The history and tradition that oozed from every corner of the stadium made it a truly special venue. The roar of the crowd, the smell of the freshly cut grass, and the anticipation before kickoff were all part of the magical experience at Highbury.  
  As the years passed, Highbury became synonymous with Arsenal’s glory days and served as the backdrop for some of the club’s most iconic moments. However, after nearly a century at Highbury, Arsenal looked to the future and embarked on a new chapter in their history with a move to the state-of-the-art Emirates Stadium in 2006.  
  Stay tuned for the next section of our Arsenal history series, as we explore the transition to the Emirates Stadium and the impact it had on the club’s legacy.  
  A New Era at Emirates Stadium  
  In 2006, Arsenal bid farewell to the iconic Highbury and embraced a new era at the state-of-the-art Emirates Stadium, marking a monumental chapter in the club’s history. This modern and world-class venue, located in Holloway, London, is not only a football stadium but also a symbol of Arsenal’s growth and ambition.  
  The Emirates Stadium, with a seating capacity of over 60,000, provides a vibrant and electrifying atmosphere for supporters. Its cutting-edge design and innovative features offer an unparalleled matchday experience. The stadium boasts excellent facilities, including state-of-the-art dressing rooms, numerous dining options, and first-class hospitality suites.  
  The Iconic Wonders of Emirates Stadium  
  Furthermore, the Emirates Stadium is not limited to football. It has become an iconic venue for concerts, hosting renowned artists from around the world. The stadium’s exceptional acoustics and vast capacity make it a favorite choice for both artists and music lovers.  
  Arsenal’s transition to the Emirates Stadium brought about new financial opportunities, allowing the club to attract top talent and elevate its ambitions. While the move initially presented financial challenges, the revenue generated from increased matchday attendance and commercial activities has strengthened Arsenal’s position in the footballing world.  
  As Arsenal continues to build its legacy at the Emirates Stadium, the club remains committed to its rich history and traditions. The stadium stands as a testament to the club’s unyielding pursuit of success both on and off the pitch, and it symbolizes the bright future that lies ahead for Arsenal Football Club.  
  The Arsenal Golden Years: 1966 to the Present  
  From the mid-1960s onwards, Arsenal experienced an era of triumph and transformation, with visionary managers leading the club to remarkable milestones. Under the guidance of Bertie Mee, Arsenal achieved unprecedented success, clinching their first European trophy and securing their first League and FA Cup double.  
  One of the notable highlights during this period was Arsenal’s victory in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1970. This triumph marked a breakthrough for the club in European competitions and established their reputation on the continent. It was a significant milestone in Arsenal’s history and set the stage for future accomplishments.  
  Following this success, George Graham took charge of Arsenal in the 1980s and guided the club to further glory. Arsenal clinched two League titles, two FA Cups, and the Cup Winners’ Cup under his leadership. This period marked a golden era for the club, with Graham’s tactical prowess and astute signings propelling Arsenal to new heights.  
  The arrival of Arsène Wenger in 1996 heralded a revolution at Arsenal. Wenger transformed the club’s playing style and introduced a new era of success. Under his guidance, Arsenal won three league and cup doubles and became the first team in the modern era to go unbeaten in a Premier League season, achieving the remarkable feat in the 2003-04 campaign.  
  Wenger’s Legacy:  
  “I tried to create a club that is respected, loved, and admired all over the world, and I think I managed to do that.” – Arsène Wenger  
  Arsenal’s move to the state-of-the-art Emirates Stadium in 2006 marked another significant milestone in the club’s history. The stadium became more than just a football venue, hosting a variety of events and cementing Arsenal’s status as a global brand. It is a testament to the club’s ambition and commitment to providing the best possible experience for fans and players alike.  
  While Arsenal has faced challenges in recent years, including a trophy drought, the club’s rich history and enduring legacy remain untarnished. With a new chapter on the horizon, Arsenal continues to strive for success and inspire future generations with their storied past.  
  The European Breakthrough: 1970 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup  
  Arsenal made their mark on the European stage in 1970, securing victory in the prestigious Inter-Cities Fairs Cup and establishing themselves as a force to be reckoned with.  
  Under the guidance of manager Bertie Mee, Arsenal showcased their talent and determination as they navigated their way through the tournament, defeating strong teams along the way. The Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, which was later rebranded as the UEFA Cup, provided Arsenal with the opportunity to compete against top European clubs and make a name for themselves beyond the borders of England.  
  In the final, Arsenal faced Belgian side Anderlecht in a two-legged battle. The first leg took place at Anderlecht’s home ground, where Arsenal displayed their resilience by securing a 3-1 victory. The return leg at Highbury proved to be a thrilling encounter, with Anderlecht pushing hard to overturn the deficit. However, Arsenal’s solid defense and clinical attacking play resulted in a 4-3 aggregate win, crowning them as the champions of the 1970 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup.  
  This triumph marked a significant milestone in Arsenal’s history, as it was their first major European trophy. The victory brought international recognition to the club and laid the foundation for future European campaigns. It showcased Arsenal’s ability to compete at the highest level and set the stage for further success in both domestic and continental competitions.  
  The First Double: 1971 League and FA Cup  
  The 1971 season will forever be etched in the annals of Arsenal’s history, as the club achieved an unprecedented milestone by clinching both the League and FA Cup titles. Under the leadership of manager Bertie Mee, Arsenal secured their first-ever double, a feat that had not been accomplished by any other English club since the turn of the century.  
  Throughout the season, Arsenal displayed a level of dominance and skill that left fans and pundits in awe. Their attacking prowess, led by the prolific strike force of John Radford and Ray Kennedy, saw the Gunners score an impressive 29 goals in their FA Cup campaign. The final, held at Wembley Stadium, saw Arsenal triumph over Liverpool with a scoreline of 2-1, courtesy of goals from Eddie Kelly and Charlie George.  
  Meanwhile, in the league, Arsenal’s steely defense, marshaled by captain Frank McLintock and goalkeeper Bob Wilson, conceded a mere 29 goals in 42 games, the lowest in the division that season. A crucial victory over their closest title rivals, Tottenham Hotspur, secured the league title for Arsenal with a game to spare, emphasizing their dominance over their North London rivals.  
  “The 1971 double-winning team will always have a special place in Arsenal’s history. They not only showcased the club’s ability to compete at the highest level but also brought immense joy to their loyal supporters,” said Arsenal historian, Martin Tyler.  
  The achievement of the 1971 team heralded a new era of success for Arsenal. It marked the beginning of a period of dominance that saw the club claim a plethora of trophies in the following years. The first double not only cemented Arsenal’s place among the elite clubs in English football but also established a winning culture that would be carried forward into future generations.  
  George Graham’s Glory Days: The 1980s Success  
  George Graham’s reign in the 1980s marked a golden period for Arsenal, during which the club secured league titles, FA Cups, and their first European trophy. With Graham at the helm, Arsenal built a formidable team known for their resilience and defensive solidity.  
  Under Graham’s guidance, Arsenal won two English First Division titles, in the 1988-89 and 1990-91 seasons. The team’s success was built on a solid defensive foundation, with the likes of Tony Adams, Steve Bould, and Nigel Winterburn forming an impenetrable backline. This defensive resilience, combined with the attacking flair of players like Paul Merson and Alan Smith, propelled Arsenal to the top of English football.  
  But it was not just domestic success that Graham brought to the club. In 1994, Arsenal triumphed in the UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup, their first major European trophy. The team, led by captain Tony Adams, defeated Parma 1-0 in the final, with Alan Smith scoring the decisive goal. This victory further solidified Arsenal’s reputation as a force to be reckoned with on both the domestic and European stage.  
  George Graham’s tactical acumen and ability to build a solid defensive unit were instrumental in Arsenal’s success during the 1980s. His legacy at the club is still cherished by fans and serves as a reminder of the heights Arsenal can achieve when guided by a strong and inspirational leader.  
  While Graham’s tenure at Arsenal came to an end in controversial circumstances, his impact on the club’s history cannot be overstated. His focus on defensive discipline and winning mentality laid the foundation for future successes at the club. George Graham’s reign in the 1980s remains a cherished chapter in Arsenal’s rich history, and his achievements continue to inspire generations of players, managers, and fans.  
  The Wenger Revolution: Unbeaten and Unforgettable  
  When Arsène Wenger took over as manager in 1996, little did anyone know that he would revolutionize Arsenal, orchestrating a period of unprecedented success and unforgettable moments. Wenger’s arrival marked the beginning of a new era for the club, propelling them to new heights both domestically and internationally.  
  Under Wenger’s leadership, Arsenal experienced a golden period, with the Frenchman implementing his innovative ideas and tactical prowess. He instilled a philosophy of attractive, attacking football that captivated fans and pundits alike. The team’s style of play was characterized by intricate passing, dynamic movement, and a focus on developing young talent.  
  Wenger’s impact was felt almost immediately, with Arsenal winning the Premier League and FA Cup double in his second full season in charge. This would become a recurring theme throughout his tenure, as he guided Arsenal to three more league and cup doubles, solidifying their status as one of the country’s top clubs.  
  However, Wenger’s greatest achievement came in the 2003-04 season when his team went unbeaten in the Premier League, becoming only the second club in English history to achieve such a feat. This remarkable accomplishment earned them the nickname “The Invincibles” and cemented their place in football history. The team’s unbeaten run stretched over 49 games, a testament to Wenger’s meticulous planning, astute signings, and ability to get the best out of his players.  
  Wenger’s reign also saw Arsenal make their mark on the European stage, reaching the UEFA Champions League final in 2006. Although they narrowly missed out on capturing the title, the journey to the final showcased the team’s resilience, skill, and ability to compete against Europe’s elite.  
  Wenger’s departure in 2018 marked the end of an era for Arsenal, but his legacy will forever be ingrained in the club’s history. The Wenger revolution brought an unprecedented level of success and unforgettable moments, etching Arsenal’s name among the footballing giants. As the club navigates the transition to a new chapter, the challenge lies in building upon Wenger’s accomplishments while forging a path to future glory.  
  Key Moments of the Wenger Era  
  The Premier League and FA Cup double in 1997-98, Wenger’s first full season in charge  
  The Invincibles season in 2003-04, going unbeaten for 49 games  
  The UEFA Champions League final in 2006, narrowly missing out on European glory  
  The development of young talent, including the likes of Thierry Henry, Patrick Vieira, and Cesc Fàbregas  
  “Arsène Wenger transformed Arsenal into one of the most exciting teams to watch in English football. His meticulous approach, visionary tactics, and emphasis on nurturing young talent left an indelible mark on the club’s history.” – Football pundit, Alan Shearer  
  The Emirates Stadium: More Than Just Football  
  The Emirates Stadium represents more than just a football arena for Arsenal; it has become an iconic venue that showcases the club’s ambition and diverse offerings. Since its inauguration in 2006, this state-of-the-art stadium has played host to not only thrilling matches but also a wide range of events and experiences, captivating fans and visitors alike.  
  With a seating capacity of over 60,000, the Emirates Stadium stands as a testament to Arsenal’s global appeal and stature. Beyond the football pitch, the venue boasts exceptional facilities that cater to various interests and preferences. Fans can explore the Arsenal Museum, which houses treasured memorabilia and tells the story of the club’s rich history. From legendary jerseys to historic trophies, the museum provides a captivating journey through Arsenal’s past.  
  Additionally, the Emirates Stadium hosts a range of non-football events, such as concerts featuring renowned artists and bands, bringing a vibrant, cultural atmosphere to the venue. The stadium’s exceptional acoustics and world-class facilities make it a prime destination for live performances, attracting fans from all walks of life. From thrilling football matches to unforgettable concerts, the Emirates Stadium truly offers a diverse range of experiences that go beyond the boundaries of sport.  
  As Arsenal continues to shape its future, the Emirates Stadium remains a symbol of the club’s ambition and commitment to providing exceptional experiences for its supporters. The venue’s innovative design, combined with its rich history, creates an unparalleled atmosphere that immerses visitors in the world of Arsenal Football Club. Whether you’re a passionate football fan, an avid music lover, or someone seeking a unique outing, the Emirates Stadium is the perfect destination for an unforgettable experience.  
  The Challenge of Transition: Wenger’s Departure and Beyond  
  After Arsène Wenger’s departure, Arsenal faced the daunting task of transitioning from one era to another, navigating uncharted territory in the pursuit of continued greatness. Wenger had been at the helm for over two decades, revolutionizing the club and leaving behind a legacy that would be hard to match. The challenge for Arsenal was not only to find a suitable replacement but also to adapt to a new style of management and philosophy.  
  The search for a new manager was an arduous process, as the club sought someone who could build upon Wenger’s success while bringing fresh ideas and perspectives. Unai Emery was eventually appointed as the new manager in 2018, bringing with him a wealth of experience and a track record of success.  
  Under Emery’s leadership, Arsenal experienced a period of transition, with the team adapting to new tactics and playing styles. The club made several high-profile signings and focused on nurturing young talent, aiming to build a team capable of challenging for top honors once again.  
  While the transition period has had its challenges, Arsenal has shown glimpses of potential and progress. The team has had successes in domestic cup competitions, reaching the finals of both the Europa League and the League Cup. These achievements serve as a testament to the club’s resilience and determination to return to the pinnacle of English football.  
  As Arsenal continues to navigate the uncharted territory of a post-Wenger era, the club remains committed to its rich history and the pursuit of greatness. The challenge of keeping up with the ever-evolving landscape of football is no easy feat, but Arsenal’s enduring spirit and dedication to success will undoubtedly guide them towards a new chapter in their storied history.  
  Goals and Titles: Arsenal’s Historical Achievements  
  Arsenal’s rich history is marked not only by iconic moments but also by an impressive number of goals scored and titles won, solidifying the club’s place among football’s elite.  
  Throughout the years, Arsenal has consistently showcased its attacking prowess, scoring a staggering total of 2,016 goals in competitive matches. This remarkable achievement is a testament to the club’s commitment to exciting and attacking football.  
  In terms of titles, Arsenal has amassed an impressive trophy cabinet. The club has won a total of 13 League titles, with the first one coming in the 1930-1931 season and the most recent being the famous “Invincibles” season of 2003-2004. This remarkable feat saw Arsenal go undefeated in the Premier League, a remarkable accomplishment that hasn’t been replicated since.  
  Arsenal’s success extends beyond the domestic stage. The club has also won the FA Cup 14 times, cementing its legacy as the most successful team in the history of the competition. Additionally, Arsenal has lifted the EFL Cup twice and has a record-breaking 14 Charity/Community Shield titles, further solidifying its status as a force to be reckoned with.  
  “Success is no accident. It is hard work, perseverance, learning, studying, sacrifice, and most of all, love of what you are doing or learning to do.” – Arsène Wenger  
  Continuing the Legacy  
  As Arsenal looks to the future, the club remains determined to build on its rich history and add more goals and titles to its name. With a new chapter set to unfold, Arsenal fans eagerly anticipate the next era under the guidance of current manager Mikel Arteta.  
  The focus is on reclaiming their place at the top of English and European football and returning to their winning ways. Arsenal’s legacy serves as a constant reminder of what can be achieved through hard work, dedication, and a commitment to the beautiful game.  
  As the club charts its course forward, one thing is certain: Arsenal’s historical achievements will forever be etched in the hearts of fans and serve as a constant source of inspiration for future generations.  
  A Legacy That Inspires: Arsenal’s Enduring Impact  
  Arsenal’s enduring impact extends far beyond trophies and triumphs, as the club’s rich history and values continue to shape the world of football and inspire generations of enthusiasts. Spanning over a century, the Arsenal Club History is laden with numerous accomplishments, iconic players, and moments that have left an indelible mark on the sport.  
  From its humble beginnings in 1886, Arsenal has evolved into one of the most storied and respected football clubs in the world. The club’s unwavering commitment to attacking, free-flowing football has garnered admiration and influenced the game’s tactical development. Arsenal’s style of play, often referred to as “The Arsenal Way,” is characterized by creativity, skill, and a commitment to nurturing young talents. Under the guidance of visionary managers like Arsène Wenger, the club has consistently produced and developed talented players, leaving a lasting impression on the footballing landscape.  
  Arsenal’s impact extends beyond the pitch. The club has a proud tradition of giving back to the community and using football as a force for positive change. The Arsenal Foundation, established in 2012, focuses on supporting charitable initiatives within education and sport, providing opportunities for young people from diverse backgrounds. This commitment to social responsibility aligns with the club’s values and further solidifies Arsenal’s enduring impact, touching lives beyond the realm of football.  
  As Arsenal continues its journey, transitioning from Arsène Wenger’s era to a new chapter in the club’s history, the legacy remains a constant reminder of the values and traditions that have shaped the club. The challenge lies in maintaining excellence on and off the pitch, embodying the spirit of innovation, sportsmanship, and dedication that Arsenal embodies. As the club embraces the future, there is no doubt that its enduring impact will continue to inspire, captivate, and define the world of football for generations to come.  
  Transitioning to the Future: Arsenal’s Next Chapter  
  As Arsenal embarks on the next chapter of their storied history, the challenge lies in gracefully transitioning from a legendary era to a promising future, with the aim of reclaiming their place at the pinnacle of English football.  
  Arsenal Football Club has always been known for its rich history and tradition. From humble beginnings in 1886 to their current status as one of the most iconic clubs in the world, Arsenal has achieved numerous milestones and experienced periods of remarkable success.  
  Under the management of George Graham in the 1980s, Arsenal dominated English football, winning two League titles, two FA Cups, and the Cup Winners’ Cup. Then came the era of Arsène Wenger, who revolutionized the club and led them to unprecedented heights. Wenger oversaw three league and cup doubles and famously guided Arsenal to an unbeaten Premier League season in 2003-04.  
  In 2006, Arsenal moved to the state-of-the-art Emirates Stadium, leaving behind the historic Highbury fortress. The Emirates Stadium has become more than just a football venue, hosting concerts and other events, and symbolizes Arsenal’s modern identity.  
  Despite a trophy drought in recent years, Arsenal remains an iconic club with a rich legacy. The challenge now lies in managing the transition from Wenger’s era to a new chapter in the club’s history. With a new manager at the helm and a talented squad, Arsenal is determined to reclaim their place among the elite and bring back the glory days to North London.  
  Key Objectives for the Future:  
  Rebuild the squad with young, talented players who embody the Arsenal ethos of attacking, free-flowing football.  
  Develop a strong team identity and playing style that resonates with fans and strikes fear into opponents.  
  Challenge for major honors, both domestically and in Europe, by investing wisely in the transfer market.  
  Improve consistency and mental resilience to overcome setbacks and maintain a winning mentality throughout the season.  
  Continue fostering a strong connection with the fanbase, ensuring that their voices are heard and their passion is shared by the players.  
  As Arsenal embraces the future, the club remains committed to its values and traditions while embracing new opportunities for growth and success. With a rich history behind them, Arsenal looks ahead to create a new chapter that will inspire future generations and leave an enduring legacy in the world of football.  
  Conclusion  
  Arsenal’s rich history, filled with remarkable milestones and legendary figures, has cemented the club’s place among football’s all-time greats, inspiring admiration and anticipation for the next chapter of their extraordinary journey.  
  From their humble beginnings in 1886, Arsenal has grown into a powerhouse of English football. The club’s transition from the iconic Highbury stadium to the state-of-the-art Emirates Stadium in 2006 symbolizes their commitment to progress and ambition. The Emirates Stadium has not only become a modern football venue but also a cultural hub, hosting concerts and various events.  
  Arsenal’s success throughout the years is a testament to their unwavering dedication and passion. The achievements under the management of George Graham in the 1980s, including two League titles, two FA Cups, and the Cup Winners’ Cup, solidified Arsenal’s status as one of the dominant forces in English football.  
  Arsène Wenger’s tenure as manager from 1996 to 2018 marked an era of unprecedented success for the club. With three league and cup doubles and the historic unbeaten Premier League season in 2003-04, Wenger’s influence left an indelible mark on Arsenal’s history.  
  As Arsenal navigates the challenge of transitioning from Wenger’s era to a new chapter, the club’s legacy continues to inspire players and fans alike. Despite recent trophy droughts, the club’s rich history and enduring impact ensure that Arsenal remains a symbol of excellence and ambition in football.  
  The next chapter of Arsenal’s extraordinary journey promises new milestones, legendary figures, and the continued pursuit of success. As they embark on this exciting phase, football enthusiasts can look forward to witnessing the legacy of Arsenal Football Club continue to unfold.  
  FAQ  
  When was Arsenal Football Club founded?  
  Arsenal Football Club was founded in 1886.  
  What is the name of Arsenal’s current stadium?  
  Arsenal’s current stadium is called the Emirates Stadium.  
  When did Arsenal move to the Emirates Stadium?  
  Who was Arsenal’s manager during the 1980s?  
  George Graham was the manager of Arsenal during the 1980s.  
  How many league and cup doubles has Arsenal won?  
  Arsenal has won three league and cup doubles in their history.  
  What is Arsenal’s greatest achievement in European competitions?  
  Arsenal’s greatest achievement in European competitions is winning the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1970.  
  Who was Arsenal’s manager during the unbeaten Premier League season in 2003-04?  
  Arsène Wenger was the manager of Arsenal during the unbeaten Premier League season in 2003-04.  
  What other events are held at the Emirates Stadium?  
  The Emirates Stadium hosts concerts and other events in addition to football matches.  
  What is the current challenge faced by Arsenal?  
  Arsenal is currently managing the transition from Arsène Wenger’s era to a new chapter in the club’s history.  
  How many goals has Arsenal scored throughout their history?  
  The exact number of goals scored by Arsenal throughout their history is not available, but the club has a rich scoring history.  
  What is the enduring impact of Arsenal’s history?  
  Arsenal’s history has left a lasting impact, inspiring future generations of players and fans.  
  What is the next chapter for Arsenal?  
  The next chapter for Arsenal involves successfully transitioning from Arsène Wenger’s era to forge a new path of success.  
  Connor  
  Connor Callahan is a Youth Soccer Coach and Entrepreneur, best known for founding the highly successful Primal Keeper Academy and the soccer training program, Better Ball Control. He coaches at South Orlando Soccer Club and Boone High School. With over a decade of experience, Connor has a proven track record of leading hundreds of youth soccer players across competitive South Eastern Soccer Seasons and Tournaments like Nona Cup, Space Coast Clash, SOSC Labor Day Cup, and many more. His expert advise has been been viewed by hundreds of thousands of viewers on YouTube. Additionally, Connor’s soccer coaching strategies shared via social media platforms reach thousands of viewers annually.  
  Email *  
  Website  
  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  
  Stress Less. Score More. Enjoy Soccer.  
  I dive deep into athletic potential, soccer player lifestyle hacking, and individual training to give you a digestible way to improve your game.  
  Primal Newsletter Weekly Viral Content  
  Keeping You In The Game Every Friday Morning Viral Content, Training Tips, And Top Products From All Across The Web!  
  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.AcceptNoPrivacy policy  
  Arsenal FC  
  As one of the most successful and beloved clubs in England, Arsenal Football Club was always a magnet for the public. Tradition-wise, their results speak for themselves; in addition to winning 28 major domestic trophies, Arsenal hold the records for longest unbeaten streak and longest run in top flight of English football.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1886 Country: England City: London  
  Home grounds  
  Plumstead Common (1887) Sportsman Ground (1887–1888) Manor Ground (1888–1890) Invicta Ground (1890–1893) Manor Ground (1893–1913) Highbury (1913–2006) Emirates Stadium (2006–)  
  Main trophies  
  First Division/Premier League: 13 FA Cup: 14 League Cup: 2 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup: 1  
  Club records  
  Most games played: David O’Leary (558) Top goalscorer: Thierry Henry (228)  
  The squad in 1925 with Herbert Chapman sitting in the center.  
  History  
  Establishment  
  Arsenal FC started life as a works team named Dial Square in 1886 – the workers were blacksmith's that built cannons, which is the reason for the club being known as the Gunners. Shortly thereafter, the club turned professional and changed its name to Woolwich Arsenal, becoming a full-fledged member of the Football League in 1893 (the first club from the south parts of the country). The following period was fraught with difficulties for the club; besides not being able to form a team that could challenge for the title, Jim was geographically isolated from the rest of the league, which resulted in low attendances. After teetering dangerously close to bankruptcy, the club was bought out by businessman Henry Norris in 1910 and moved to North London in 1913 (Highbury became the new home ground). The following year, the club was renamed as Arsenal.  
  Rise to prominence, the Chapman era  
  The club's first rise to prominence came with the hiring of Herbert Chapman as manager in 1925. In the process of modernizing many aspects of the club, Chapman improved the training regimen and made efficient changes to the club's traditional 2-3-5 formation. After following this up by signing a couple of star players, Arsenal won their first major trophy in 1930, defeating Huddersfield Town 2-0 in the FA Cup final. This proved to be the beginning of a fruitful period for the club; during the 30s, they claimed five league titles and another FA Cup trophy. The post-WWII period saw the club continue on their path of prosperity with another two League titles (1948, 1953) and an FA Cup (1950). Those were the last trophies the club would see for the next seventeen years, however; with their best players retiring or leaving for more successful clubs, Arsenal fell into a slump of mediocrity. After winning their first Double in 1971, it seemed like the club's fortunes had finally turned. Yet, this was followed up by a long string of second-place league finishes and losses in Cup finals, with the 1979 FA Cup victory being the only bright spot on their record during this time. They were a little more successful under George Graham, whose defense-oriented mindset proved a good fit with the club's players. During Graham's nine years in charge (1986–1995), Arsenal won two League titles, two League Cups, an FA Cup, as well as their first and only Cup Winners' Cup by defeating Parma 1-0 in the final (they had been very close to win the 1980 Cup Winners' Cup Final, losing against Valenca in the final after a penalty shootout). Arsenal line up 1971 FA Cup final v. Liverpool (2-1)  
  Advertisement  
  The Wenger era  
  Arsenal would become far more watchable with the appointment of Arsène Wenger. The then-unknown French manager immediately transformed the club into a goal-scoring behemoth, partly by successful import of French players such as Robert Pirés, Patrick Vieira and Thierry Henry. Henry was incredibly effective as the lace of the team's attack. Between 1996 and 2004, Arsenal claimed three League titles and three FA Cups, with the 2003–2004 season being particularly noteworthy due to the club not losing a single game in the Premier League. That squad, powered by Henry's 30 goals in 37 matches, was later dubbed “The Invincibles”. Arsenal a.k.a. “The Invincibles” typical line up Under Arsène Wenger's management, Arsenal has been known as a club that doesn’t buy big names, but instead finds talents through excellent scouting. An exception, however, was the transfer of Mesut Ozil from Real Madrid in 2013. He did cost £42.5 million, a transfer record for the club. Being one of the top clubs in England, the 38,419 seats at Highbury was not sufficient (the rule from 1994 dictating all-seater stadiums in the league had considerably reduced the capacity). Arsenal wanted to expand the stadium, but wasn't given permission since the stands were historically listed buildings. They had to build a new stadium and in 2006 Emirates Stadium was ready for first kick-off with potentially over 60,000 in the crowd.  
  Outside Emirates Stadium in 2015.  
  In recent years, Arsenal has been somewhat of a perennial bridesmaid. While the club was always among the favorites to win the league, a string of major injuries and/or disappointing losses would inevitably see them tail off in the title race. As a sort of consolation prize for the club's fans, the three additional FA Cup trophies in 2005, 2014 and 2015 have made Arsenal the most successful club in the competition's history. The missing trophies finally led to the departure of Arsène Wenger in May 2018, after 22 years in the club.  
  By Martin Wahl  
  Logo  
  The early crest included three canons and was influenced by the heraldic arms of the Royal Borough of Greenwich (the club was in its early years based in Borough). Over the years, the Arsenal logo has been modernized into a more simplified fashion.  
  Arsenal FC timeline  
  1886 The club is established (as Dial Square, changes to Royal Arsenal the same year). 1893 The club joins the English Football League (as Woolwich Arsenal). 1904 First season in the First Division. 1913 The club move to the Arsenal Stadium (Highbury Stadium). 1914 The club is renamed as Arsenal. 1925 Herbert Chapman is appointed as manager. 1930 Winning their first FA Cup title. 1931 First time national league champions. 1933 White sleeves on the shirt is introduced. 1970 First European cup trophy (Inter-Cities Fairs Cup). 1971 Winning their first Double (the First Division and the FA Cup). 1983 David Dein become vice-chairman. 1986 The former Arsenal player George Graham is hired as manager. 1986 First League Cup title. 1993 First European Cup Winners' Cup title. 1996 Arsène Wenger is appointed as manager. 1998 First Champions League participation. 1999 Thierry Henry is transferred from Juventus. 2006 The club move to the Emirates Stadium.  
  Club nicknames:  
  Records and statistics  
  External links  
  References: Jonathan Wilson, Inverting the Pyramid: The History of Soccer Tactics (2013) Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Clegg, The Club (2018) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arsenal_FC https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Invincibles_(football)#Arsenal https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arsenal_Stadium https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emirates_Stadium http://www.arsenal.com/news/news-archive/the-arsenal-crest Image source: 1. History of Football: The Beautiful Game – part 3 (2002) 2. Little Savage  
  More from Football  
  Latest  
  Content type  
  Manchester City Women defender and former England captain Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season.  
  John Stones, Kyle Walker, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are among the key players in a race to be fit for the big Super Sunday showdown between Man City and Arsenal.  
  Declan Rice is hoping to convince Arsenal team-mate Ben White to make an international U-turn and become available to play for England.  
  Kyle Walker is expected to recover from injury in time for Man City's huge match against title rivals Arsenal on Sunday - live on Sky Sports.  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  Arsenal forward Bukayo Saka has withdrawn from the England squad due to a minor muscle issue.  
  Three Arsenal supporters have each received a three-year football banning order for tragedy chanting during an FA Cup tie with Liverpool.  
  Ben White has invited scrutiny with his England snub but the Arsenal defender is misunderstood and mischaracterised.  
  With the Premier League reaching its final stretch of games, we take a look at where each team are compared to this stage last season...  
  Man Utd's trip to Bournemouth will now take place on April 13, while Arsenal's clash with Aston Villa has been moved to April 14, with both fixtures live on Sky Sports.  
  Man City will face Real Madrid in the Champions League quarter-finals while Arsenal were drawn against Bayern Munich.  
  Ron Walker, Peter Smith and Sam Blitz discuss the Premier League make a case for each of the three contenders - Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester City.  
  Mikel Arteta has hailed the "big step" Arsenal have taken in qualifying for the quarter-finals of the Champions League for the first time in 14 years.  
  No winner of the Super 6 March Rollover so far means a massive £750,000 is on the line this weekend! Play for free.  
  Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta reflects on their Round of 16 Champions League win over Porto and praised the role goalkeeper David Raya played in the victory.  
  Arsenal's Martin Odegaard highlighted the role the fans played in their Champions League Round of 16 win over Porto.  
  Arsenal sources have denied Mikel Arteta insulted Porto manager Sergio Conceicao's family in the aftermath of Tuesday's dramatic penalty shootout.  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  1990-1991. Arsenal were deducted 2 points for their role in a brawl during their away fixture against Manchester United.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  AISA Arsenal History Society: preserving Arsenal's heritage  
  A History of Arsenal  
  ————————–  
  The journal of the AISA Arsenal History Society  
  —————–  
  Please join our association: its free!  
  If you enjoy our daily review of Arsenal’s history please do show your appreciation by becoming an associate member of AISA – Arsenal Independent Supporters’ Association. It’s completely free, but being a member does make a statement that you value our work not just in recording Arsenal’s history but also in engaging with the club over issues relevant to supporters today. You can join for free at https://aisa.org/associate-membership/  
  Neither the Arsenal History Society nor AISA seeks to encourage gambling, and would ask you to note that if you choose to gamble you always should gamble responsibly. In this regard we would ask you to take note of the Be Gamble Aware website which will help if you have difficulties with gambling.  
  Aspirecasinos.com is the number 1 sites for casino brands on the aspire global network. The full list can be found here.  
  For an independent bingo comparison site we recommend ohmybingo.com  
  This site is based around series of articles on specific themes – and you can find links to many of these on this page and on the left column under the heading “Pages”.  
  Our three giant series are shown above. Here are some of the other popular series that have been written recently or are actively being updated at the moment.  
  Exclusive: The interview with George Davie – the man who sued Arsenal and overturned the transfer system.  
  The article that led to the creation of the statues at the Emirates Stadium  
  There are plenty of UK football fans that like betting on their favorite team and Gooner fans are no different. It helps of course that the UK has one of the most dynamic betting scenes where you can place wagers on title win, position betting, transfer market and more. Many visitors report to us though on getting a bit lost with the choice online, gambling guides like Playright can help you find your way sifting through the sites highlighting their individual strengths and weaknesses.  
  For advertising contact Snack Media at 0207 272 7582 or email Tom@Snack-media.com  
  For all other issues please contact Arsenal History Society at Tony@schools.co.uk  
  This site represents very much a forum for knocking around ideas and seeking out issues that can be debated. As such we openly acknowledge that some of the notions expressed here might be wrong, facts will be inaccurate and will need correcting. Indeed if you can help us do that, please do either comment on an article, or write a new article for us.  
  2 Replies to “A History of Arsenal”  
  Do you have the 2017 FACup Final history programme still available. And the booklets-Herbert Chapman-Truth and myths And Glory Days renewed  
  I’d very much like all of these. Just let me know how much they are and I will forward you the money if you send me your bank details. Many thanks and keep up the great work.  
  Club history  
  Arsenal Football Club have a storied history as one of England’s most successful teams. Their story dates back to 1886 when munitions workers at the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich founded the side as Dial Square. While they now play in the Premier League and are past champions.  
  Club name  
  A group of munitions workers led by David Danskin took inspiration from a workshop at the centre of Royal Arsenal as they founded the team as Dial Square in 1886. Yet they switched to Royal Arsenal within months before later becoming a limited liability company in 1893.  
  From then on, Arsenal were known as Woolwich Arsenal until the club relocated from south of the River Thames to north London. They then took on the name of The Arsenal from 1913 but gradually phased out the use of ‘The’ and simply took on Arsenal as their official name.  
  Arsenal badge  
  Arsenal’s bade has changed form 11 times since the club first created a crest on October 20, 1905. The club took inspiration from the Woolwich Borough coat of arms for its design as a sign of their pride in the area with the cannons on the crest reflecting its military influence.  
  The Gunners’ move away from Woolwich in 1913 necessitated a change in Arsenal’s badge. But the club stuck with one cannon on their crest and adopted their nickname from it from 1922. A change in 1949 then saw the introduction of their motto, Victoria Concordia Crescit.  
  It further featured the introduction of the word Arsenal on the badge, which would remain unchanged in the most for the next 53 years. The club only made slight alternations to their crest’s colour, with the alterations from the 2001/02 term chosen for commercial reasons.  
  Arsenal also decided in 2002 to design a new badge to embrace their forever forward vision. The club felt it would be fitting to change their crest ahead of moving to Emirates Stadium in 2006. While they introduced a 125th-anniversary design exclusively for the 2011/12 season.  
  The badge celebrated Arsenal’s foundation with 15 golden oak leaves on the right in honour of the 15 munitions workers who founded the club. Arsenal also included 15 laurel leaves on the left-hand side to signify the detail on the reverse of the six pence pieces that they paid.  
  Kit history  
  Throughout Arsenal’s history, the club has kept to a red-and-white kit. Only for the 2005/06 season as they bid farewell to Highbury with a special burgundy jersey have they not used a red shirt. While they have stuck with white shorts since 1897 after experimenting with blue.  
  League history  
  Arsenal are one of the ever-present Premier League teams having joined the division for its inaugural season in 1992/93. The Gunners have also won three top-flight titles since it broke from the old English Football League, First Division. Their triumphs total 13 top-flight titles.  
  The Gunners’ legendary manager Herbert Chapman oversaw their first top-flight title back in 1930/31. While the club has now spent more than the past 100 years in the top-flight of the English game. The Football League voted to promote the club to the top-flight back in 1919.  
  The Football League chose Arsenal over their local rivals Tottenham Hotspur for a top-flight berth as it expanded the division following World War I. Arsenal had fallen out of the earlier version of the top-flight in 1912/13 and only finished the 1914/15 second-tier term in fifth.  
  Arsenal trophies  
  Arsenal’s 13 top-flight trophies so far make the north London club the third-most successful team in the English game. Only Manchester United (20) and Liverpool (19) have yet won the top-flight more often. While the Gunners are the most successful FA Cup team of all time.  
  No team has won the FA Cup more often than Arsenal, who have triumphed 14 times in the oldest national football competition in the world. Another of the Gunners’ legendary former managers, Arsene Wenger, is also the most successful coach having overseen seven titles.  
  Arsenal’s trophy cabinet also features two English Football League Cups. The team have also lifted the Charity Shield/Community Shield 16 times as well as the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup once and the UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup once. They lost in the Champions League final in 2005/06.  
  Players and managers  
  Arsenal’s club history is brimming with iconic players and managers. Chapman and Wenger are two of the Gunners’ most legendary coaches, along with George Graham. Chapman led the Gunners to their first major trophy in the 1930 FA Cup three years after losing the final.  
  Wenger, meanwhile, transformed Arsenal and English football during his 22 years in charge of the club. The Frenchman replaced Graham at the helm at Highbury in October 1996 as a virtually unknown name in England. Yet his free-flowing football would create true legends.  
  Many iconic players would grace Arsenal over the Wenger years from Thierry Henry, Robert Pires and Sol Campbell, who he stole from Tottenham. While his touch would also transform Dennis Bergkamp and Patrick Vieira into two of the Premier League’s most important icons.  
  Henry would eventually leave Arsenal in 2007 known affectionally as The King having scored a club-record 228 goals. He also holds club records for the most appearances in Europe (86) and the Champions League (78). David O’Leary has the club record (722) in all competitions.  
  Ashley Cole: Ex-Arsenal and Chelsea defender inducted into Premier League Hall of Fame  
  Ashley Cole, widely regarded as the best left-back in Premier League history, is the 22nd inductee into the Hall of Fame; he won three titles across 15 years in the league; he was part of Arsenal's Invincibles in 2003/04 and the Chelsea side that scored a then-record 103 goals in 2009/10  
  Tuesday 26 March 2024 19:35, UK  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame.  
  Former Arsenal and Chelsea defender Ashley Cole has been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame.  
  The former England international, widely regarded as the best left-back in Premier League history, won three titles across a 15-year career in the top-flight.  
  Cole, the 22nd inductee into the Hall of Fame, was part of Arsenal's famous Invincibles that won the title in 2003/04, still the only side in league history to go unbeaten for a whole season.  
  Having come through Arsenal's academy, Cole signed for Chelsea in 2006 and won his third Premier League title in 2009/10 as Carlo Ancelotti's side scored a then-record 103 goals.  
  "I'm honoured to join the Premier League Hall of Fame. It's humbling and fulfilling to be rewarded at the end of your career," said Cole.  
  "I went through my career just trying to give my best and be good enough. You take it day by day and game by game. As a young kid, you never dream of any of this and you just do it for the love of the game of football.  
  "I played for some fantastic clubs with incredible fans. Winning trophies with my boyhood club Arsenal and with Chelsea are amazing memories that will always be with me.  
  Also See:  
  "It's emotional to reflect because a lot of hard work has been put in. To join the Hall of Fame alongside the likes of Alan Shearer, Thierry Henry, Didier Drogba and Rio Ferdinand, I'm privileged to be in their company."  
  Cole finished his Premier League career with a win rate of 62 per cent, keeping 147 clean sheets in 385 appearances. The full-back also scored 15 goals and provided 31 assists.  
  Premier League chief executive Richard Masters said: "If you ask people for the best full-back in Premier League history, many of them would name Ashley Cole. He excelled for title-winning Arsenal and Chelsea sides and helped to redefine the position thanks to his defensive and attacking qualities.  
  "After breaking through as a youngster at Arsenal, he will always be remembered as part of the iconic 'Invincibles' team, whose achievements remain unprecedented to this day.  
  "He continued his winning ways at Chelsea, forming a key part of one of the highest-scoring sides we have ever seen, and we are delighted to welcome him as the latest inductee into the Premier League Hall of Fame."  
  The stats behind Cole's magnificent PL career  
  Ashley Cole made 385 Premier League appearances between 2000 and 2014, winning three Premier League titles - two with Arsenal (2001/02, 2003/04) and one with Chelsea (2009/10).  
  He was directly involved in 46 goals from left-back - only two defenders had more goals and assists combined during the same time period, while only Leighton Baines assisted more goals.  
  Only three defenders registered more than Cole's 147 clean sheets (John Terry, Jamie Carragher and Rio Ferdinand) between his first and last appearances, while it was the most of any full-back in that time.  
  During his time at Chelsea between 2006/07 and 2013/14, Cole ranked in the top-five for chances created, (overall and in open play) tackles and successful passes (overall and in the opposition half) among Premier League defenders.  
  Declan Rice aims to convince Arsenal teammate White to end England exile  
  Midfielder describes Arsenal colleague as a ‘really unique player’  
  Rice to captain England against Belgium on 50th cap  
  Declan Rice has said Arsenal’s ­England contingent are on a mission to convince Ben White to rethink his refusal to play for his country.  
  Gareth Southgate wanted to name White in his squad for this month’s friendlies against Brazil and ­Belgium, only for the versatile defender to make clear he did not want to be ­considered for selection. It remains to be seen whether the 26-year-old, who has enjoyed an outstanding season at club level, can be persuaded to ease England’s defensive crisis by coming out of international exile.  
  White has not played for ­England since his early departure from the 2022 World Cup and there have been suggestions that his reticence to return to the fold stems from a disagreement with Southgate’s No 2, Steve Holland. Southgate, who is to hand Kobbie Mainoo a first start, has denied those claims.  
  England’s head coach could clearly have made good use of White ­during this camp. Harry Maguire, Luke Shaw and Kyle Walker are injured, ­leaving Southgate without three of his favoured back four, and several other defenders are out. The door is still open for White and he will be under pressure from Aaron ­Ramsdale, Bukayo Saka and Rice when the ­quartet are reunited at Arsenal after the international break.  
  “He’s a really unique player because he can play three positions,” Rice said. “In tournaments that’s so key. He can play centre-back, he can play right-back, he can play inverted full-back. When I get back I can have a conversation with him and see the ins and outs and see what he thinks. I would love him to come. I think Bukayo would. I think Aaron ­Ramsdale would. I think we’re all going to be on him when we get back. Hopefully he can change his mind.”  
  Rice, who against Belgium on Tuesday will mark his 50th cap by captaining England for the first time, indicated that Southgate had spoken to White since shedding light on the situation at his squad announcement this month. The midfielder also backed White to deal with criticism of his position.  
  “I’m not concerned,” Rice said. “I think the biggest thing is it’s Ben’s life, it’s Ben’s decision. Obviously people are going to have opinions, people are going to write stuff, but he’s content with his decision. We had a few days off before we came here so I’m sure Gareth and him spoke in that period. I don’t know the ins and outs of it. But all I can say is that I would love him to be here. Playing against him and now playing with him, seeing how he is, he is very quiet, keeps himself to himself, but when he’s on the pitch he’d do anything for his team to win.”  
  Rice’s experience at ­international level will stand out when an experimental England side look to bounce back from losing 1-0 to Brazil. Jordan Henderson and Cole Palmer are back from injury, although Southgate was unsure whether either is ready for 90 minutes. ­Jarrad ­Branthwaite and Lewis Dunk are competing for spots in central defence, Ezri Konsa could replace Walker at right-back and the ­versatile defender Joe Gomez is ­hoping for a start.  
  Harry Kane’s absence will give Ivan Toney a chance to push his claim for a spot in the Euro 2024 squad when the Brentford striker starts for the first time. Plenty of players will be under the spotlight – Jarrod Bowen and Marcus Rashford will hope for starts on the flanks – and Southgate needs to find the right balance in midfield.  
  Having started Conor Gallagher with Rice and Jude Bellingham against Brazil, Southgate has turned to Mainoo. Southgate, who gave the midfielder his debut as a substitute against Brazil, has been impressed with the 18-year-old in training.  
  “He seems very calm,” he said. “Talking to him tactically, he seems able to take all those concepts on. You can see his comfort with the ball and receiving in tight areas. There are a lot of steps being taken in a very short period of time.”  
  Southgate could move ­Bellingham into a deep role and start James Maddison. He was reluctant to hype Mainoo, pointing out central midfield is a nuanced role. “Kobbie is still developing,” he said. “In terms of progress into our squad he is ­benefiting because we are not as rich in resources in that area. We are really happy to see how he has dealt with training. But I am mindful that we have to look after him and make sure his development is at the right speed.”  
  How Arsenal beat Porto in penalty shootout to advance to Champions League quarter-finals  
  Arsenal have reached the last eight of the Champions League for the first time since 2010 thanks to a pair of saves by David Raya in the shootout  
  Champions League result: Arsenal win on penalties  
  Arsenal won penalty shootout 4-2 after last-16 tie finished 1-1 on aggregate after extra time  
  What does this mean for Arsenal’s season?  
  Getty Images  
  Arsenal will be grateful their meeting with Chelsea initially scheduled for this weekend has been postponed due to their opponents’ involvement in the FA Cup quarter-finals. Arteta only used one of his substitutions in the first 90 minutes here and another intense game in such quick succession could have represented a mountain to climb.  
  Champions League progression will mean they now have midweek games ahead of their league matches against Aston Villa and Wolves next month. These weeks will be an even bigger challenge for Arsenal in regards to how Arteta chooses to use his squad.  
  Gabriel Jesus and Oleksandr Zinchenko were both given an opportunity to take further steps back in their returns from injury tonight, which should bode well for the coming weeks. They also have Thomas Partey and Takehiro Tomiyasu, who will now have the two-week international break to regain more fitness.  
  The energy that comes from such a dramatic win should also galvanise a squad who have ridden through very possibly their toughest test of the season so far.  
  Raya proves his worth  
  Getty Images  
  Odegaard led by example in the shootout, stepping up to take the opening penalty, which he duly converted. After Porto’s Pepe converted their first one, Havertz exuded calm on Arsenal’s second with a stuttering run-up to slide the ball past Costa as he dove to his opposite side.  
  Then came the first save. Wendell stepped up with a confident run-up, but Raya guessed right and athletically flicked the left-back’s effort onto the post with his fingertips.  
  With Bukayo Saka and Rice scoring their subsequent efforts with typical conviction, the pressure mounted for each Porto player. Galeno, the match-winning hero of the first leg, had to score.  
  The shot was good, but the save was better. Raya dived to his left and got two strong hands on the Brazilian’s effort.  
  Step forward Martin Odegaard  
  The Athletic  
  The collective gasp of appreciation from the Emirates’ crowd when Odegaard slipped his pass inside Joao Mario to assist Trossard for what proved the only goal of the night was acknowledgement of a player seizing the moment.  
  The Arsenal captain has been in great playmaking form since December and has created more chances from open play (62) than any player in the top five European leagues. But that sumptuous final ball was not the only eye-catching moment supplied by the 25-year-old Norwegian.  
  His touches and body feints away from pressure, and his ball manipulation in tight areas, are what separate him from so many players.  
  As captain, he also took responsibility to put pressure on the Porto back line, haring forward when defenders were on the ball and back when midfielders took up possession.  
  Arteta’s players having to learn on the hoof  
  Getty Images  
  Arsenal’s players and staff would have been under no illusions about the task at hand with Porto. This is a squad Arteta has made young by design and nights like this are a key part of their education.  
  In the first leg, Havertz was the only member of the Arsenal XI to have previously started a knockout game in the Champions League. In the return at the Emirates Stadium, Jorginho added his calming presence, but the collective inexperience was still evident.  
  William Saliba and Saka have arguably been their most consistent players this season, but both struggled to truly settle. Whether it be loose touches in possession or a nervousness to bring down aerial balls, this was a different game to everything they are used to.  
  Jorginho showed his craft at different points in the game, using his body well to win fouls and guiding Saka on which runs to make, but collectively that know-how still needs developing.  
  With the majority of the squad in their early or mid twenties, that will surely come with more exposure at this level.  
  Why did Arsenal struggle to impose themselves?  
  Getty Images  
  Many fans might have thought that a tie against Sergio Conceição's side was among the easier clashes in the round of 16, but Porto’s performances this season have been built on a strong defensive foundation in all competitions — averaging just 0.68 goals conceded per 90 in the Primeira Liga, which is comfortably the best defensive record in Portugal.  
  Just as they were in the first leg last month, Porto were disciplined, well-drilled, and regimented — led by their 41-year-old captain Pepe, whose leadership, experience and continued professionalism knows no bounds.  
  Porto frustrated Arsenal for long periods. Their 4-5-1 block was rarely penetrated, and it took a world-class pass from the hosts’ captain Odegaard to finally put Arsenal on the scoreboard after 130 minutes of trying in this tie.  
  That was the only time Arsenal were able to force the ball past Diogo Costa across two games, plus extra time, before the shootout. Arsenal did not perform to their maximum, but Porto more than played their part in frustrating them across both legs.  
  Arsenal deny Arteta insulted Porto manager's family  
  Arsenal officials have insisted that Porto coach Sérgio Conceição is mistaken in his claim that Mikel Arteta insulted his family during tonight's match.  
  Trossard on his goal: I knew Odegaard would find me  
  Getty Images  
  Trossard also spoke to UEFA.com about his goal: "I gave it to Martin (Odegaard) and I know when he's on the ball, you have to get in behind, because he will find you. In that moment, I saw him looking at me and I knew he would find me. Then I just tried to put it in the corner. I was so pleased it gave us the lead.  
  "You learn from every game. We learned from the first leg and today we played really well. We didn't give a lot of chances away and managed to score. You have to dig deep to win these games and that's what we did."  
  Trossard on a 'nerve-wracking' night  
  Leandro Trossard, whose goal levelled the tie for Arsenal, spoke to UEFA.com after the match: "It was nerve-wracking, of course. We have so many good penalty takers, so obviously I believed in them, but in the end it's a lottery. The saves from David (Raya) were incredible, so that's how you win games. We're really pleased to go through after such a long time. It must be amazing for the fans.  
  "We knew it would be tough. They're a really good defensive side and try to break on the counter. That's what they did the whole game, with long balls behind. We managed really well."  
  When is the Champions League draw?  
  The draw will take place this Friday at 11am GMT/12pm CET/7am ET/4am PT.  
  Both the quarter-finals and the semi-finals will be drawn, which means that the road to the final will be fully mapped out for the eight remaining teams.  
  An hour later (12pm GMT/8am ET/5am PT), the same will be done for the Europa League and at 1pm GMT (9am ET/6am PT), the draws for the Europa Conference League will be made.  
  Which teams are in the quarter-finals?  
  Paris Saint-Germain  
  The final two quarter-finalists will be confirmed tomorrow. Atletico Madrid host Inter Milan with the Italian team holding a slender 1-0 advantage from the first leg, while Borussia Dortmund and PSV face off in Germany after a 1-1 draw in the first leg.  
  All hail Raya rise  
  How to sum up the mood from Arsenal supporters after that round of 16 tie?  
  I reckon Angel A does a good job:  
  💬 "Even though we hate the way, Porto really made us suffer in both ties. Great plan, really well coached, tactically made us play the way they wanted and those fast wingers with great dribbling hurt us.  
  "David Raya was crucial here. Porto had 2 big chances and Raya stepped out (not even mentioning the 2 pens). Fair play to Porto, but we are in the quarter-finals! Let’s go."  
  Sánchez: 'We never played with penalties in mind'  
  Getty Images  
  Porto defender Jorge Sánchez also spoke to DAZN after the match: "It's a difficult feeling to explain. We're sad for the result, happy for the display and what we've achieved. We played eye-to-eye with Arsenal, who are a great team.  
  "We never played with penalties in mind, but now we have to look ahead because there's still a lot to achieve. The coach asked me to give everything and that's what I did, but in the end we didn't get through."  
  Porto are currently in third place in their domestic league, six points behind Benfica and seven points behind Sporting Lisbon, the latter of which have a game in hand.  
  An assist from the North Bank  
  Getty Images  
  Nice to see Pires C claiming an assist for Arsenal's shootout win in our matchday discussion tab, which you can view here:  
  💬 "In the North Bank right now, unabashed to say we had a hand in jeering the missed pens into being."  
  These managers won't be friends anytime soon  
  Porto manager Sérgio Conceição has now accused Mikel Arteta of insulting his family in Spanish during the game.  
  Porto manager: 'We were better in both games and deserved to go through'  
  Getty Images  
  Porto coach Sérgio Conceição spoke to DAZN after his club's elimination: "I am proud. We were superior in both games. We had one or two chances in extra time against a team that scores a lot of goals, the Premier League leaders. We worked hard but set up a little poorly. Otherwise, we would have gone through.  
  "We knew the pressure Arsenal were going to put on us. Arsenal always come on very strong and we were prepared for that. At this level, a mistake is costly. The players are to be congratulated, they gave everything. It was the details. We were better in both games and deserved to go through."  
  Arsenal goal came in a 'really important moment'  
  Getty Images  
  More here from Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta, talking to TNT Sports and discussing their shootout preparations, taking on Porto and what comes next:  
  💬 "You are very nervous. You are hoping for the best, but you know it's a bit of a lottery. We had our preparation yesterday and the day before, just in case, and it really helped. So credit to the goalkeeping coaches and everybody that contributed.  
  "It's really difficult to play against Porto. They are a really competitive team. You don't get many moments when you can control the game because it's stop-start, direct play, battle after battle and they are a really good side.  
  "We scored in a really important moment. We tried to generate chances. We had two or three - not many - but this is Europe and this is this competition.  
  "This is where we want to be. We've been patient. We’ve worked so hard. A lot of people made a lot of good decision and showed a lot of courage in difficult moments."  
  This is Martin, how may I assist you?  
  Getty Images  
  Martin Odegaard's brilliant pass to Leandro Trossard opened Porto up and allowed Arsenal to score the equalising goal they so sorely needed.  
  The Arsenal captain has now provided as many assists this season as he managed in the whole of last season (7).  
  Pepe is an ageless wonder  
  Not in every position, but there are some footballer players – particularly centre-backs and orchestrating midfielders – who really do look like they could play forever.  
  Pepe: Arsenal were lucky  
  Getty Images  
  Pepe, who put in a massive performance at the age of 41 for Porto tonight, spoke to DAZN after the match: "It's a shame to be eliminated like that, but that's part of football. We were a team that gave Arsenal a hard time, starting with our home game. Today, they got the goal with their first shot on target.  
  "I have to congratulate my team-mates because they did what the coach asked. But at times we could have done better and scored. It was a great game from us, but unfortunately we didn't advance.  
  "We didn't forget that Arsenal are a great team who score a lot of goals in league games. We came to play our game, neutralising Odegaard's play between the lines. We knew what we were doing but unfortunately we couldn't score. They were lucky."  
  Arsenal Football Club has been one of England's most successful clubs for over 137 years. The Gunners have a history rich in traditions dating back to 1886.  
  Arsenal is one of the most successful clubs in Premier League history. Starting as a club founded by munitions workers Arsenal went on to win 13 league titles, a record 14 FA Cups, two League Cups, and 16 FA Community Shields. It's easy to see why the late Queen Elizabeth II was an admirer of Arsenal FC.  
  The Gunners hold the record for the most successive seasons in the Top Flight (including Division 1 and Premier League ). When was Arsenal founded? How did Arsene Wenger create the Invincibles? How is Mikel Arteta changing Arsenal? You'll find answers to all these questions and more here. So, keep reading to not miss a thing.  
  It all started when a Scotsman football enthusiast decided to gather a group of friends to play football. David Danskin was a Scottish munition worker, who lived in Woolwich. At the time Woolwich was an area known for rugby and cricket, but it was about to change.  
  Danskin worked at the Arsenal munitions factory. After exposing his idea to three of his friends, Elijah Watkins, John Humble, and Richard Pearce, Danskin decided to form a team. Of course, to form a football team you need some sort of investment. So, 15 men put in sixpence and David Danskin put three shillings himself and they purchased a football club.  
  That's how in October 1886 a new football club was formed.  
  Every team needs a name. David Danskin and co knew that but didn't know how to call themselves. When you don't know how to call your team, you go with the most obvious name. That's how they came up with the name Dial Square.  
  Dial Square referred to the sundial atop the entrance to the factory they worked in.  
  Anyways, that name didn't stick for long. In December 1886, two months after being founded, the club scheduled a game against Eastern Wanderers. Danskin's team defeated Eastern Wanderers 6-0. With the victory a new name was born - 'Royal Arsenal'. Why Royal Arsenal you may ask? After the win, the founding fathers of the club were sitting in a pub named Royal Oak. So, they came up with the idea to combine the pub's name with their place of work.  
  Later, Royal Arsenal evolved into Woolwich Arsenal. When the club moved to Highbury in North London (more on that later in the article) they rebranded again. They dropped 'Woolwich ' from their name and left only 'Arsenal'. That's how Arsenal FC was born.  
  Arsenal kit history lays on a lack of finance. It was Nottingham Forest that donated Arsenal their iconic red and white kit. Having a tight budget the Club was looking for an inexpensive way to create a kit for the team. That's when Fred Beardsley and Morris Bates came to the rescue.  
  Fred Beardsley and Morris Bates moved to Woolwich for work and they joined Dial Square FC. The two men happened to be former Forest players. So, when moving to Woolwich they brought their old red kit with them.  
  The Club's original kit was dark red with long sleeves, worn with white shorts and socks.  
  1891 was the year when the club turned professional. The London FA tried to form a southern league with London's leading clubs such as Tottenham, Queen's Park Rangers and Millwall but failed.  
  So, Arsenal received their chance to join the Football League. The club started in the Second Division. The Club was the first southern member of The Football League. It wasn't until 1904 when they got promoted to the First Division.  
  In their first season, Woolwich Arsenal set a record, winning 12-0 in the FA Cup against Ashford United. To this day this record remains the club's biggest win in the competition.  
  1910 was one of the club's most difficult years in its history. Woolwich Arsenal was on the verge of bankruptcy, because of a lack of interest from the fans. This resulted in a shortage in attendance and financial difficulties among the munitions workers.  
  When things looked bad for the club, an English businessman Henry Norris, came to the rescue. Norris was a chairman of Fulham and later a major shareholder of Woolwich Arsenal.  
  Norris saw an opportunity to save Woolwich Arsenal by merging the two clubs, but his plan failed. So, the other option was to move the club elsewhere. The only thing left to do was to find the perfect place to move the club.  
  In 1913, Arsenal found its new home, but there was one small problem. It was Highbury, a stadium located in North London. Why a problem you may ask? Well, by that time North London was already home to Tottenham Hotspur.  
  Tottenham was not happy with the decision and appealed to the league. Their wish was not granted and Woolwich Arsenal was permitted to move to Highbury.  
  One of the Premier League's biggest rivalries is between Arsenal and their nearest major neighbour, Tottenham Hotspur.  
  The two clubs don't particularly like each other and there is always some kind of scene during the North London Derby.  
  Another big rivalry is the one with Chelsea. When there's a match between these two teams you can't turn your eyes off the pitch. During the 1980s Arsenal formed a rivalry with Manchester United. The rivalry intensified in the early 2000s, when the two teams were in their prime, competing for the Premier League title.  
  In 1919, Arsenal got promoted to the First Division.  
  This is a precedent in history, as they are the first club to be promoted not based on football achievements.  
  Arsenal didn't have a glorious 1914/15 season, finishing 5th in the Second Division. Then when they were preparing for the start of the new season, a war happened. WWI broke out and football was put on hold for nearly five years.  
  When things were finally getting back to normal, the league resumed in 1919. The First Division decided that it was time to add two more teams to the league. That's when Henry Norris pulled off one of the most controversial stunts in English Football history.  
  Chelsea and Tottenham finished the previous season sitting 19th and 20th, respectively. The two clubs were facing relegation. Chelsea was allowed to remain in First Division, so there was only one spot to be filled.  
  Henry Norris knew that he had to do something to get his club promoted to First Division. At the Football League's Annual General Meeting, Arsenal's chairman, Norris, argued that Arsenal should get a promotion, despite sitting 5th in the Second Division table.  
  Norris stated that Arsenal deserves it, due to their contribution to footballing history. Things worked out well for Henry Norris and his club.  
  Henry Norris influenced enough people and The Arsenal got promoted by 10 votes instead of relegated local rivals Tottenham Hotspur.  
  In 1886, a group of co-workers fulfilled their dream and founded a football club. It was Arsenal - one of the biggest clubs in the world.  
  Arsenal has a long list of managers throughout the year. From Sam Hollis to Mikel Arteta, the Gunners have had 29 coaches in their history, but only a few will be remembered forever.  
  Despite being founded in 1886, Arsenal didn't have a coach until 1894. Arsenal's coaching history begins with Sam Hollis.  
  Before Sam Hollis took over Arsenal in 1894, the team management was undertaken by a committee of directors. By the time the manager role was known as "secretary-manager".  
  Hollis was appointed as secretary-manager in 1894. He spent three years with the club before deciding to move to Bristol City in the summer of 1897.  
  Hollis didn't have the most impressive run with the club as Arsenal remained in the mid-table.  
  Arsenal's first professional manager was Thomas Brown Mitchell.  
  The Scotsman joined the club in 1897 from Blackburn Rovers. Mitchell spent less than a year with Arsenal but still managed to guide the club through three FA Cup qualifying rounds before a defeat to Burnley in the first round proper.  
  William Elcoat succeeded Arsenal's managing role from Thomas Mitchell.  
  Like Mitchel, Elcoat didn't stick for long at the club, leaving Arsenal after 25 games as manager.  
  Harry Bradshaw is highly regarded as Arsenal's first successful manager.  
  He took over the reins from George Elcoat in 1899. For the five years he was ahead of Arsenal, Bradshaw completely changed the club's look.  
  Harry Bradshaw's tactical abilities helped his team reach a top-three finish in the league in 1902/03.  
  Some football managers will be remembered for their tactics, and some for completely transforming a football team. But there is a specific sort of football coaches, who will be remembered for changing the whole game. That's exactly the case with Herbert Chapman.  
  Herbert Chapman is arguably one of football's greatest innovators.  
  Herbert Chapman was appointed as Arsenal manager in 1925 and stayed at the club until his sudden death in 1934. For the time he was ahead of Arsenal, Chapman won two First Division titles and two FA Cups. During his Arsenal reign, Chapman introduced the 3-3-4 or ‘WM’ formation.  
  George Graham was appointed as Arsenal's manager in 1986. Graham was a former Arsenal player, who has already won the First Division and FA Cup in the 1970/71 season. But he wanted to repeat it as a manager as well.  
  In almost nine years as manager of Arsenal, George Graham won two league titles, two League Cups, an FA Cup, and the European Cup Winners' Cup.  
  The Scotsman made Arsenal one of the most dominant teams in the late 1980s and early 1990s.  
  George Graham left Arsenal in 1995. After a successful managing career with the Gunners, he went on to manage Leeds United and Tottenham Hotspur.  
  George Graham completely transformed Arsenal, but he left a huge gap when he left them in 1995. The club tried to fill the gap, by signing Bruce Rioch in 1995. Rioch was ahead of Arsenal for just 47 games, before leaving in 1996.  
  The club appointed Stewart Houston and later Pat Rice in temporary charge while they were looking for the right person to take over the managing role. And they found him!  
  Arsenal assigned Arsene Wenger as their manager and the Frenchman was about to rewrite their history forever.  
  During Arsene Wenger's time at the club, he guided the club's second league and FA Cup double, in his first full season at Highbury in 1998. Arsene Wenger won seven FA Cup titles, more than any other manager in history. Wenger even led Arsenal to a UEFA Champions League final, which the Gunners lost to Barcelona.  
  But by far Wenger's biggest achievement is Arsenal's entire unbeaten league campaign in 2004 when they won the title. Arsene Wenger's Invincibles is still Arsenal's best starting XI of all time.  
  Arsene Wenger arrived at Highbury in October 1996. The fans were surprised by the board's decision to appoint the Frenchman as Arsenal's manager. Until now, they didn't have a coach outside the UK, and they didn't know much about Wenger.  
  All they knew was that he had a good spell with Monaco and a successful run with the Japanese club Nagoya Grampus Eight. But the change was there from when Arsene took over the managing role at Arsenal.  
  Arsene Wenger started a revolution not only on the pitch but also in the players' lives.  
  Arsene Wenger was a real perfectionist when it comes to nutrition. He spent a year in Japan, a country with a low obesity rate.  
  The footballers back in the day were not so strict with their diet. They were eating lots of traditional English foods, not rich in macronutrients.  
  As soon as Wenger took charge, he made sure that new more nutritious diet plans were implemented.  
  Instead of red meat, the players started eating chicken breasts and broccoli. The traditional pie before a match was replaced with pasta, which has way more nutritional value.  
  Along with the new diet plans, Wenger implemented new training regimes. They were more strict, as the Frenchman ran everything according to his stopwatch.  
  The players were training harder than before and that resulted in their performance on the pitch.  
  Wenger included a new training exercise called plyometrics. This type of exercise uses the speed and force of different movements to build muscle power.  
  With the appointment of Arsene Wenger as Arsenal's manager the days of 'Boring Boring Arsenal' were over. During George Graham's reign, the club's football was often referred to as “boring, boring Arsenal.  
  Why 'Boring Boring Arsenal'? Well, the club was not fun to watch. They lacked creativity in the front line and weren't creating many goalscoring opportunities. Arsenal was only relying on their backline back in Graham's years. It was Arsene Wenger, who changed that.  
  During his time Arsenal played the most attractive football in the Premier League.  
  They relied on speed and precision. The players were creating many opportunities in front of the opponent's net.  
  Herbert Chapman is one of the most successful Arsenal managers and a real football innovator. Thanks to Chapman, Arsenal became the first club to wear numbers on their jerseys.  
  Unai Emery came as Arsene Wenger's successor. Emery had two successful campaigns with Paris Saint-Germain before becoming Arsenal's coach.  
  Emery led the club to a UEFA Europa League final in his first season as manager but lost it to Chelsea.  
  The Spaniard was sacked the following year, as neither the fans nor the board was happy with Arsenal's displays.  
  After Unai Emery left Arsenal, the club needed a new manager, but there was no proper candidate. The board assigned Freddie Ljungberg as their temporary coach.  
  In December 2019, Mikel Arteta was named Arsenal manager. Before that Arteta worked as Pep Guardiola's assistant manager at Manchester City.  
  Arteta was the right choice as manager, as he knew the club. He was an Arsenal player from 2011 to 2016 and always loved the club.  
  The former captain led the club to their 14th record FA Cup title in the 2019/20 season.  
  Arteta's side also won the Community Shield against Liverpool in 2020.  
  Arsenal is a club with a rich history. Since their foundation in 1886, the Gunners have had one of the best players to ever play in England's top flight.  
  Many consider their 2003-04 title-winning 'Invincibles' as Arsenal's best team.  
  Here is a short list of the best Arsenal players of all time:  
  Mr. Arsenal! Tony Adams is arguably one of Arsenal's best captains of all time.  
  Adams spent his entire playing career with Arsenal. He made his senior debut for the club in 1983 and played for the Gunners until his retirement in 2003.  
  During that time Tony Adams helped Arsenal keep 115 clean sheets, won the First Division once, the Premier League two times, and the FA Cup three times.  
  Robert Pires is for sure one of the most successful foreign players the Premier League has seen.  
  Arsene Wenger brought Pires to Arsenal in 2000. The Frenchman quickly adapted to the style of play of Wenger and soon started to show his class.  
  Along with Thiery Henry and Patrick Vieira, Pires dominated the pitch every time they stepped on it.  
  Arsenal's Invincibles was something different. The team was full of one of the most talented footballers of all time.  
  Patrick Vieira is often regarded as one of the best midfielders of his generation. A true Arsenal legend, Vieira was known for his aggressive and highly competitive style of play.  
  Patrick Vieira played for Arsenal for nine years, during which he won the Premier League three times and the FA Cup four times.  
  Dennis Bergkamp arrived at Arsenal in 1995, and stayed with the club for 11 years, until his retirement in 2006. Bergkamp completely changed the DNA of the club. Ian Wright best described the influence the Dutchman had on Arsenal by saying:  
  “He was the best signing the club ever made. He changed the DNA of the club."  
  Dennis Bergkamp won three Premier League titles and four FA Cup titles.  
  The one and only, Arsenal's all-time top goalscorer, Thierry Henry.  
  Thierry Henry is often regarded as one of the best players to ever play in England's top flight. Arsene Wenger bought Henry as a replacement for Nicolas Anelka. Wenger changed Thierry Henry's position to a striker and that was the best decision he has ever made.  
  Thierry Henry, Arsenal's legendary no. 14, became one of the best footballers the Premier League has ever seen.  
  Thierry Henry is often regarded as Arsenal's best player. With a record of 175 goals in 258 games and 74 assists for Arsenal, Henry won two league titles and four Golden Boots.  
  Arsenal wouldn't be Arsenal without its iconic crest. Everything about the Arsenal badge reflects its history.  
  The modern crest we have today has the symbolic red and gold colour along with the cannon.  
  But was it always that way?  
  Well, no. An interesting fact is that Arsenal played without a badge for two years. Their first crest was unveiled in 1888 and featured three lions at the bottom of three cannons. The club used that badge until 1913 when they moved to Highbury.  
  In 1922, the club adopted a crest which featured a single cannon, pointing eastwards, with the club's nickname, The Gunners.  
  This badge didn't last for long, as it was replaced in 1925 with one that point westward and its barrel slimmed down.  
  The club used this crest until 1949 when it was replaced with a more modern looking one. The new badge still had the same looking cannon, but they added the club's newly adapted motto "Victoria Concordia Crescit" - "Victory grows out of harmony".  
  In 2002, Arsenal introduced their new crest, which we all know today.  
  They had to drop their old badge from 1949 due to copyright problems. The club had difficulties in registering the crest as a trademark. Due to those problems, the club had fought a long legal battle with a local street trader who sold "unofficial" Arsenal merchandise. They eventually won the battle but knew that something had to change.  
  That's why in 2002, Arsenal showed a new more simplified crest, which was easy to copyright.  
  The cannon in Arsenal's new badge point to the east as the one from 1922. They replaced the green colour with blue and had the club's name written above the cannon.  
  In the 2011/2012 season, Arsenal celebrated its 125th anniversary and the club came up with a special crest to celebrate it. The badge was unique and was surrounded by 15 oak leaves to the right and 15 laurel leaves to the left.  
  The symbol behind the 15 oak leaves was the 15 founding fathers of the club, who met at the pub Royal Oak.  
  The 15 laurel leaves symbolize the design detail on the six pence pieces paid by the founding fathers to establish the club.  
  Arsene Wenger revolutionized Arsenal. The Frenchman completely changed the players training regimes and diet plans. Wenger also changed the scouting system of the club and more foreign players started playing for English clubs.  
  Arsenal has changed their stadiums several times - from Manor Ground in Plumstead, South East London to Emirates Stadium.  
  One of those switches created one of the biggest rivalries in Premier League history. This between Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal.  
  Woolwich Arsenal originally played at Plumstead Common. That was their first home until 1913 when the club decided to move to Highbury.  
  The decision to move to Highbury was made in 1913 when the club was struggling financially.  
  Arsenal was bought by Fulham's chairman, Henry Norris, whose initial plan was to merge the two clubs. The Football League didn't give their permission, so, the other option was to move the club elsewhere.  
  The only proper place for a new home for Arsenal was Highbury, but there was one problem. The stadium was located in North London, which was already home to Tottenham Hotspur.  
  Spurs appealed, but they were denied and Arsenal was given permission to move to Highbury in 1913. That's how the North London Derby has begun.  
  In 2006, Arsenal decided that it was time to leave Highbury and move to a bigger stadium. Their relocation started four years prior, but financial difficulties delayed the process.  
  Arsenal moved to the Emirates seeking to maximise ticket sales.  
  The club left Highbury with style, as on May 7, 2006, they played against Wigan Athletic. Robert Pires opened the scoreline and Thierry Henry completed the 4-2 victory with a hat-trick.  
  Arsenal moved to Emirates Stadium, which capacity was way bigger than Highbury. Emirates Stadium has a capacity of 60,260.  
  Arsenal has won 13 Premier League titles (including their unbeaten one), a record 14 FA Cups, two League Cups, 16 FA Community Shields, one European Cup Winners' Cup, and one Inter-Cities Fairs Cup.  
  Arsenal is arguably one of the most successful Premier League clubs. The club was last relegated in the 1912-13 season. Arsenal was promoted to the First Division in 1919-20, and they've been in the top league since then. The Gunners are the club with the most successive seasons in the Top Flight.  
  The Premier League was created in 1992. Arsenal has won the Premier League three times since its foundation. Arsene Wenger led the club to its first PL title in 1998, following one in 2002 and their unbeaten title run in 2004.  
  Arsenal is known as the Gunners, which is a reference to the club's founding fathers, who were workers from the Royal Arsenal armament factory in Woolwich.  
  1886  
  David Danskin established the club as Dial Square. Later that year it changes to Royal Arsenal.  
  1893  
  Woolwich Arsenal joins the English Football League.  
  Press ESC to close  
  Soccer History Of Arsenal FC  
  Arsenal Football Club or The Gunners are an English professional soccer team that competes in the Premier League. They are based in London, United Kingdom.  
  Arsenal plays their home games at the Emirates Stadium. The stadium has a capacity of 60,704 seats. The Gunners currently hold the record for the most FA Cup trophy won by an English side at writing. Besides, they are the only team that managed a whole Premier League campaign without a single defeat in 38 games.  
  Arsenal history is an amalgam of both low and high periods. This article is everything you need to learn about the history of The Gunners.  
  Foundation Of Arsenal FC  
  The year 1886 marked the foundation of Arsenal FC as Dial Square Football Club. The man behind the creation of the London team was David Danskin. The Scotsman got the support of an additional fifteen munitions workers. They chose the name Dial Square after a workshop at the Royal Arsenal complex.  
  The first game of Dial Square resulted in a 6-0 win against Eastern Wanderers. The fixture took place on December 11, 1886. Less than one month after its formation, the club changed its name to Royal Arsenal. The Plumstead Common was the club’s first home ground. Yet, they played most of their games at the Manor Ground.  
  In 1891, they joined the history books by becoming the first London side to turn professional. Two years later, the London club changed its name to Woolwich Arsenal. The club escaped bankruptcy in 1910.  
  Royal Arsenal got a new ground in the name of Arsenal Stadium in 1913. Besides, the team was renamed to The Arsenal the same year and Arsenal two years later. In 1919, The Arsenal was promoted to the First Division over Tottenham Hotspur. This decision gave birth to the rivalry between the two London sides.  
  Rise Of Arsenal Under Chapman  
  The Gunner’s entry into the First Division and their new stadium brought much luck and success to them. In addition, it helped the club become financially stable. In 1925, Arsenal appointed Herbert Chapman as their new manager. The gaffer secured the signature of numerous talented players.  
  Chapman brought in Cliff Bastin, Eddie Hapgood, David Jack, and Alex James. The signings proved decisive as The Gunners secured their first FA Cup trophy in 1930. They defeated Huddersfield Town by 2-0 in front of 92,499 soccer fans at the Wembley Stadium.  
  Chapman guided his team to two First Division titles in 1931 and 1933. He also introduced shirt numbers and white sleeves on the team’s jersey. Unfortunately, the Arsenal manager tragically lost his life on January 6, 1934. He suffered from pneumonia.  
  More First Division Success After Chapman  
  Joe Shaw and George Allison continued the work left by Herbert Chapman after his death. The Gunners marched on to more league success as they claimed the First Division title in the 1933-34 and 1934-35 campaigns.  
  Arsenal returned to winning ways after the war. They claimed a sixth league title in 1948. As the years went by, The Gunners lifted a third FA Cup two years later. They also managed a seventh First Division title in the 1952-53 season.  
  Many Arsenal players lost their lives following the war. As a result, the club was subject to significant financial issues.  
  18 Years Trophy Drought  
  The Gunners could not win a single trophy for the next 18 years. It remains Arsenal’s longest run without silverware to date. In 1971, the London club finally put its hand on two domestic trophies. They claimed the FA Cup and the First Division title.  
  After their domestic double, Arsenal’s performance somehow declined steadily. The team managed to reach the final of the FA Cup in 1972 but lost to Leeds United. Besides, they finished the 1972-73 season as runner-up.  
  The Gunners had another four finals between 1978 and 1980. They lost the 1978 and 1980 FA Cup finals to Ipswich Town and West Ham United, respectively. However, the London club managed a fifth FA Cup triumph in the 1979 final after defeating Manchester United by 3-2. They lost the 1980 European Cup Winner’s Cup final on penalties against Valencia.  
  Revival Under George Graham  
  Arsenal appointed George Graham as their manager in 1986. The gaffer did not take long to bring glory back to Highbury. One year after his appointment, Arsenal secured their first League Cup by defeating Liverpool by 2-1. Ian Rush opened the score for The Reds, but a brace from Charles Nicholas saw The Gunners lift the trophy.  
  Graham signed Nigel Winterburn, Lee Dixon, and Steve Bould to strengthen The Gunner’s defense. With Tony Adams, the three new signings formed the “famous Back Four.”  
  Arsenal managed a domestic double two years later. Then, in 1993, they won the FA Cup and the League Cup. One year later, Graham led his team to a historic European Cup Winners’ Cup trophy. They overcame the Italian side, Parma, in the final by 1-0. Alan Martin Smith scored the only goal of the game. Graham was cleared of his duties in 1995 following a bribery case.  
  Arsène Wenger; Made For Arsenal  
  Arsène Wenger was appointed as Arsenal’s permanent coach in 1996. A disciplined coach in every aspect, Wenger turned his side into an attacking threat in England and Europe. His players followed strict work and diet plans to perform at the highest level.  
  After his arrival, the Frenchman brought in fellow players like Patrick Vieira and Thierry Henry. As a result, Wenger became the second Arsenal manager to manage a league and cup double. He claimed the 1997-98 Premier League title and the FA Cup trophy.  
  Despite making it to the 1999-2000 UEFA Cup final, The Gunners finished as runner-up. However, Galatasaray won the trophy courtesy of a penalty shootout win of 4-1.  
  Three seasons later, Wenger repeated the feat by again achieving another league and cup double. In the league, they finished first with 87 points. Thierry Henry finished the season as the top scorer with 24 goals. In the FA Cup final, Arsenal overcame rivals, Chelsea, by 2-0.  
  Arsenal, The Invincibles  
  Arsenal claimed a ninth FA Cup glory in 2003. They faced Southampton on May 17, 2003, at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff. The match ended 1-0 with Robert Pires scoring the game’s only goal in the 38th minute.  
  The 2003-04 Premier League campaign will remain engraved in the memory of every Arsenal fan. The soccer world witnessed an incredible team guided by Arsène Wenger take the English soccer by storm. The French manager had a dream team with Thierry Henry, Dennis Bergkamp, Edu, Patrick Vieira, Kolo Touré, Lauren, Ashley Cole, Sol Campbell, and Jens Lehmann.  
  That season, The Gunners won 26 out of 38 games and made 12 draws. Yes, you guessed it right. Arsenal did not suffer a single defeat the whole campaign. They finished the season as Champions of England with 90 points. Arsenal was awarded a golden trophy by the Premier League thanks to their unbeaten record. They got the nickname “The Invincibles” associated with them.  
  That season, club striker Thierry Henry finished the season as the league’s top scorer. He scored 30 goals, 8 more than Newcastle United striker Alan Shearer. Henry also won the PFA Players’ Player of the Year. In addition, club manager Arsène Wenger won the LMA Manager of the Year award.  
  Champions League Final Under Wenger  
  Arsenal qualified for the UEFA Champions League final in 2006. They faced the Spanish side, FC Barcelona, at the Stade de France, Saint-Denis. Barcelona eventually won the big ears trophy by overcoming The Gunners by 2-1.  
  From Highbury To The Emirates Stadium  
  Arsenal previously played at Highbury for 93 years. Highbury had a capacity of 38,419 seats. However, the club needed to match their rivals in terms of finance and players signings. So they decided to move to a bigger stadium.  
  The Emirates Stadium became Arsenal’s new home ground in June 2006. It can accommodate up to 60,704 fans when fully packed. Thus, the new stadium was synonymous with more revenue. Moreover, it helped the club massively from a financial point of view.  
  More FA Cup Glory For The Gunners  
  Arsenal had two League Cup finals in 2007 and 2011, respectively. The club finished runner-up on both occasions.  
  On September 2, 2013, Arsenal secured the signature of Mesut Özil from Real Madrid for a fee of £42.5 million. The acquisition of the talented midfielder brought much hope to the fans. However, the last trophy won by the London club was the 2005 FA Cup.  
  Arsenal was a finalist of the 2014 FA Cup. They faced Hull City at the Wembley Stadium. During an epic encounter between the two sides, Hull led by two goals within 10 minutes. Goals from Santiago Cazorla and Laurent Koscielny took the match into extra time. Aaron Ramsey eventually gave the victory to The Gunners.  
  Wenger and his side defended their FA Cup trophy the following year. They overcame Aston Villa by 4-0 in the finals to claim their 12th FA Cup trophy. Two years later, Arsenal made it a 13th FA Cup win courtesy of a 2-1 win over Chelsea. Arsène Wenger left the managerial position of the club on May 13, 2018. The gaffer spent 22 years at the club.  
  Life After Arsène Wenger  
  Spanish coach Unai Emery replaced the departing Wenger at Arsenal. Emery previously coached the French side, Paris Saint-Germain. During his first season in charge, Arsenal finished fifth in the league. On the European level, Arsenal qualified for the UEFA Europa League final. However, the Gunners eventually lost the trophy to Chelsea in an encounter that finished 4-1.  
  After a series of poor performances, Emery was sacked as Arsenal manager. Interim head coach Freddie Ljungberg replaced him.  
  Former Arsenal player, Mikel Arteta, was appointed as the head coach on December 20, 2019. He guided Arsenal to an 8th place finish during the first season. In the FA Cup, Arsenal defeated Chelsea by 2-1 to claim a record 14th trophy. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored a brace in the final.  
  The history of Arsenal Football Club between 1886 and 1966 covers the time from the club's foundation, through the first two major periods of success (the 1930s, and the late 1940s and early 1950s, respectively) and the club's subsequent decline in the early 1960s.  
  Arsenal Football Club was founded in 1886 as a munition workers' team from Woolwich, then in Kent. They turned professional in 1891 and joined The Football League two years later. They were promoted to the First Division in 1904 but in 1910 the club went into voluntary liquidation due to financial problems and were bought out by a consortium of businessmen. New majority shareholder Sir Henry Norris improved the club's financial standing and moved the team to Arsenal Stadium, Highbury, north London in 1913. In 1919, after the First World War, the club was voted into the newly expanded First Division, where they have remained ever since.  
  It was not until the appointment of Herbert Chapman as manager in 1925 that Arsenal had their first period of major success. Chapman modernised and reformed the club's practices and tactics, and under him and his successor George Allison (who took over after Chapman's death in January 1934), Arsenal won five First Division titles and two FA Cups in the 1930s. After the Second World War, Tom Whittaker continued the success, leading the club to two First Division titles and an FA Cup. After Whittaker's death Arsenal's fortunes gradually declined; by 1966, they were consistently finishing around the middle of the league table and had not won a trophy in thirteen years. This led to the dismissal of Billy Wright as manager in 1966, and the appointment of Bertie Mee.  
  The club was founded as Dial Square Football Club in 1886 by a group of workers employed by the Dial Square workshop at the Royal Arsenal, an armaments factory in Woolwich, which was then in Kent but was incorporated into London in 1889.[1][a] They were led by a Scotsman, David Danskin, who purchased the club's first football, and Jack Humble. Among their number was the former Nottingham Forest goalkeeper Fred Beardsley, who would later along with Morris Bates obtain a set of red kits from his old club.[3] Dial Square played their first match on 11 December 1886 against Eastern Wanderers on an open field on the Isle of Dogs, which they won 6–0.[b] The club was renamed Royal Arsenal soon afterwards, reportedly on Christmas Day.[3] Initially the club played on Plumstead Common, but soon sought alternative homes, firstly the Sportsman Ground in Plumstead before moving to the adjacent Manor Ground in 1888. Unhappy with the Manor Ground's poor facilities, the club moved to the nearby Invicta Ground in 1890, before returning to the Manor Ground three years later as the Invicta Ground's rent proved too expensive.[4]  
  During this period, Royal Arsenal were successful in various local trophies, winning both the Kent Senior Cup and London Charity Cup in the 1889–90 season and the London Senior Cup in 1890–91; they also entered the FA Cup for the first time in 1889–90.[5] A gulf between Arsenal and the professional sides from Northern England soon became apparent, and Arsenal faced the threat of their amateur players being lured away by the money which professional sides could offer; after Derby County had played Arsenal in an FA Cup tie in 1891, they attempted to sign two of Arsenal's amateur players on professional contracts.[4] Royal Arsenal's move to professionalism in 1891 was frowned upon by many of the amateur southern clubs, and they were banned from participating in local competitions by the London Football Association.[6] With friendlies and the FA Cup the only matches available for Royal Arsenal, they attempted to set up a southern equivalent of The Football League, but the move failed.[6] The club changed its name to Woolwich Arsenal in 1893 when it formed a limited liability company.[7] The club was invited to join the Football League in 1893, initially in the Second Division, becoming the first Southern club to enter the League. In response, some of the club's amateur players who rejected professionalism and wanted a workers' team to represent just the Royal Arsenal, broke away to form a short-lived alternative side, Royal Ordnance Factories.[8]  
  Woolwich Arsenal played in the Second Division for eleven seasons, and generally occupied mid-table positions before the appointment of Harry Bradshaw as manager in 1899;[9] Bradshaw and his signings, including goalkeeper Jimmy Ashcroft (Arsenal's first England international) and captain Jimmy Jackson, won promotion to the First Division in the 1903–04 season. Bradshaw moved on to Fulham in May 1904, before Arsenal had kicked a ball in the top flight. Despite some strong performances in the FA Cup – the club reached the semi-finals in 1905–06 and 1906–07[9] – Arsenal were unable to challenge for the League title, only twice finishing above tenth place in the First Division between 1904 and 1913. One cause of this decline was the club's ongoing financial problems; despite the boom in football during the early 20th century, the club's geographic isolation, in the relatively underpopulated area of Plumstead (then on the outskirts of urban London), meant that attendances and thus income were low.[10] To stay afloat, Woolwich Arsenal were forced to sell their star players (including Ashcroft, as well as Tim Coleman and Bert Freeman), and slowly started to slip down the table, which compounded their financial situation as crowds fell. By the end of the decade the average attendance at Manor Ground was 11,000, a little over half of what it had been in 1904.[11] The club was close to bankruptcy, and in 1910 went into voluntary liquidation before being bought out by a consortium of businessmen; the largest shareholder amongst the new owners was the property magnate Sir Henry Norris, who was also the chairman of Fulham.[12]  
  Move to Highbury and the promotion controversy (1910–1925)[edit]  
  Norris was acutely aware of the problems associated with Woolwich Arsenal's location, and was desperate to improve the club's income. First, he tried to merge Woolwich Arsenal with his other club, Fulham. When that was blocked by the Football League, Norris abandoned the merger and looked to move the club elsewhere, eventually picking a site in Highbury, north London. Despite objections both from Woolwich-based fans and residents of Highbury,[13] Norris saw the move through, reportedly spending £125,000 (equivalent to £13,085,572 in 2021)[14] on building the new stadium, designed by Archibald Leitch, on a divinity college's playing fields. Woolwich Arsenal moved there in the 1913 close season, having finished bottom and been relegated to the Second Division in the 1912–13 season.[9] The club replaced the "Woolwich" in its name with "The" in April 1914, finally becoming plain "Arsenal" in November 1919,[15] although the press at the time continued to refer to them as "The Arsenal" and some still do.[14] The move to Highbury brought about much larger crowds; the average attendance in Arsenal's first season at the new ground was 23,000 (compared to 11,000 at the Manor Ground) and rose further after promotion in 1919, finally warding off the spectre of financial ruin.[16]  
  The club controversially rejoined the First Division in 1919,[17][18] despite having only finished sixth in 1914–15, the last season of competitive football before the First World War — although an error in the calculation of goal average meant Arsenal had actually finished fifth, an error which was corrected by the Football League in 1975.[19][20] The First Division was being expanded from 20 teams to 22, and the two new entrants were to be elected at an AGM of the Football League. On past precedent the two places would be given to the two clubs that would otherwise have been relegated, namely Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur. Instead one of the extra places was awarded to Chelsea and a ballot was called for the remaining place. The candidates included 20th-placed Tottenham and, from the Second Division, Barnsley (who had finished third); Wolverhampton Wanderers, (fourth); Birmingham (fifth, later amended to sixth); Arsenal; Hull City (seventh); and Nottingham Forest (eighteenth).[19] The League voted to promote sixth-placed Arsenal, for reasons of history over merit; Norris argued that Arsenal be promoted for their "long service to league football", having been the first League club from the South.[18] The League board agreed; Arsenal received 18 votes, Tottenham 8, Barnsley 5 and Wolves 4, with a further 6 votes shared between the other clubs.[17]  
  The announcement of the vote reportedly caught all the clubs, except Arsenal, unawares and the affair is a major contributing factor to the rivalry which has fuelled the long-standing enmity between Arsenal and Tottenham.[17][18] There is also an inconsistency in the argument – if "long service to league football" was the criterion for promoting Arsenal instead of Tottenham then Wolverhampton Wanderers, who finished two points ahead of Arsenal and were founder members of the Football League, would appear to have had a stronger claim. It has been alleged that this was due to backroom deals or even outright bribery by Sir Henry Norris,[17] colluding with his friend John McKenna, the chairman of Liverpool and the Football League, who recommended Arsenal's promotion at the AGM.[17] No conclusive proof of wrongdoing has come to light, though other aspects of Norris's financial dealings unrelated to the promotion controversy have fuelled speculation on the matter; Norris resigned as chairman and left the club in 1929, having been found guilty by the Football Association of financial irregularities; he was found to have misused his expenses account, and to have pocketed the proceeds of the sale of the Arsenal team bus.[21] Regardless of the circumstances of their promotion, Arsenal have remained in the top division since 1919, and as a result hold the English record for the longest unbroken stretch of top-flight football.[22] There appear to be no extant records of the meetings which elected Arsenal to the First Division in 1919, however the book Making the Arsenal proposes a different reason for their election in that year, arguing that match-fixing issues from the final year of football before the war (1914–15) were used by Norris as a weapon in his battle to get Arsenal promoted. He demanded that Liverpool and Manchester United (some of whose players had been found guilty of match fixing) be punished by relegation or expulsion, and threatened to organise a breakaway from the league by Midlands and southern clubs if nothing was done. To placate him the League offered Arsenal a place in the First Division.[23]  
  The club's return to the First Division was not immediately successful. Under Leslie Knighton, the club never finished higher than ninth, and in the 1923–24 season came close to returning to the Second Division, finishing 19th and only a point clear of the relegation zone.[24] Arsenal did no better the following season, finishing 20th (although the club was a lot safer this time, being seven points clear of the relegation places), which was the last straw for Norris; he fired Knighton in May 1925,[25] and appointed the Huddersfield Town manager Herbert Chapman in his place.[26]  
  Chapman reformed many of the club's practices, including modernising the training and physiotherapy regimes, adding numbers to the players' shirts in August 1928,[27] and changing the team's colours, adding white sleeves to the red shirt in March 1933. Chapman also insisted on journalists dropping the definite article from the club's name, becoming just "Arsenal", and he successfully campaigned for the renaming of the local Tube station, Gillespie Road, to Arsenal.[28] At the same time, Chapman had a large transfer budget by virtue of Arsenal's improved revenue from their new stadium and a change of heart from Henry Norris; previously a highly prudent chairman, Norris now dictated that there was to be heavy spending on new players. This led to Arsenal becoming known as the "Bank of England club".[29] Chapman's first signing was veteran Charlie Buchan from Sunderland; as well as his contributions on the pitch, Buchan would play an important part of it. After Arsenal were beaten 7–0 by Newcastle United in October 1925, Buchan suggested a change to the formation to adapt to a relaxation of the offside law, adjusting Arsenal's formation to the "WM", strengthening the defence by pushing the centre half back into defence and the full-backs out to the wings.[30] Over time, Chapman developed the formation further, putting an emphasis on a pacey forward line, wingers cutting inside, and the role of a creative ball-playing midfielder.[31]  
  Arsenal came second in Chapman's first season, their best finish at that time,[32] but for the next few seasons they finished in mid-table as Chapman took his time to assemble his side, slotting new signings such as winger Joe Hulme, forward Jack Lambert and defenders Tom Parker and Herbie Roberts into his new formation. In 1926–27, Arsenal reached their first FA Cup final, only to lose 1–0 to Cardiff City, after Arsenal's goalkeeper Dan Lewis let a harmless-looking shot slip through his arms and into the net;[33][34] it was the only occasion in history that the FA Cup has been won by a club from outside England.[35] Chapman was not deterred, and continued to build his side, signing future captain Eddie Hapgood, as well as three of the club's great attacking players, David Jack, Alex James and Cliff Bastin; it was especially James, Arsenal's playmaker in midfield, supplying the forward line and wingers, who became celebrated as the engine of the team.[36] Three years after their first Cup final, in 1929–30, Arsenal reached Wembley again, this time up against Chapman's old club Huddersfield Town. The match was notable for being "buzzed" by the enormous German airship Graf Zeppelin. Arsenal were not distracted from their task; they won 2–0 with goals from James and Lambert to bring home the club's first major trophy.[37] Their FA Cup success was the first in a decade in which Arsenal were the dominant club in England.[37] They won the First Division for the first time in 1930–31;[37] Arsenal performed strongly in a free-scoring title race with Aston Villa, recording several heavy wins (including 7–1 against Blackpool, 7–2 against Leicester City, and 9–1 against Grimsby Town.[38] Arsenal finished the season as champions having scored 127 league goals (another club record),[39] though runners-up Villa managed to score 128,[40] a record for the most goals in an English top flight season.[41]  
  The following season, 1931–32, Arsenal reached the FA Cup final again, losing controversially to Newcastle United. Arsenal had led 1–0 with a Bob John goal, but Newcastle's equaliser came after a long ball had seemingly gone over the goal line, and out for a goal kick. Newcastle winger Jimmy Richardson nevertheless crossed the ball back into play and Jack Allen levelled the match for the Magpies; Allen scored again in the second half to win the match 2–1.[42] Everton had also pipped them to the League title; a poor start to the 1931–32 campaign meant that Arsenal played catch-up for most of the season, finishing two points adrift.[43]  
  Arsenal bounced back the following season, winning their second League title. Arsenal had started the season weakly, but then went on a long winning run to catch up and then overtake fellow title challengers Aston Villa, whom they beat 5–0 at Highbury in April to clinch the title.[44] By this time Chapman's first set of signings had started to show their age,[45] so with an eye to the future Chapman promoted George Male to the first team to replace Parker, and signed Ray Bowden to take over from Jack. The team did, however, lose to Walsall of the Third Division North in a major upset in the FA Cup; five of the first team were out with injury or flu and had their place taken by reserves,[46] and without them Arsenal lost 2–0 in one of the greatest FA Cup upsets of all time.[47] One of the stand-ins, Tommy Black, was particularly to blame, conceding a penalty for Walsall's second, and was sold by an enraged Chapman to Plymouth Argyle within a week of the result; another, striker Charlie Walsh, was transferred to Brentford a week later.[48]  
  Arsenal had started the 1933–34 season solidly, but in January 1934 Chapman died suddenly from pneumonia.[49] Despite this, under caretaker manager Joe Shaw Arsenal retained the title that season. Hulme and James were both out with injury for a large portion, and so Arsenal were not the attacking side they had been the previous season, scoring only 75 in the League, compared with 118 in 1932–33.[32]  
  George Allison (who had formerly been a director of the club) took over the job of team manager in the summer of 1934 and soon signed new blood for the side, including wing halves Jack Crayston and Wilf Copping (whose signings had been initiated by Chapman), and striker Ted Drake.[50] With these new signings, Allison oversaw the completion of a hat-trick of League titles in 1934–35,[51] and Arsenal were back to their attacking best; Drake scored a club record 42 league goals that season,[39] and Arsenal racked up a series of heavily one-sided scorelines reminiscent of the 1930–31 season (including 7–0 against Wolves, 8–1 against Liverpool, and 8–0 twice, against Leicester City and Middlesbrough).[52] Arsenal's strength was such that seven of the players that played for England against World Champions Italy in 1934 were on Arsenal's books; as of 2019 this remains a record number of players from a single club in an England team.[53] England won 3–2 in an aggressive game dubbed the "Battle of Highbury".[53]  
  Arsenal's ongoing success attracted larger and larger crowds. The club's home, Highbury, was completely redeveloped, with Leitch's stands from 1913 demolished and replaced with modern Art Deco stands, parts of which remain to this day — the façade of the East Stand is now a Grade II listed building,[54] and both façades have been retained as part of the modern-day redevelopment of Highbury into an apartment complex. Meanwhile, the North Bank and Clock End terraces had roofs installed. The new stadium saw its largest attendance, 73,295, on 9 March 1935 for a match against Sunderland.[55] Arsenal won a second FA Cup in 1935–36, winning 1–0 in the final against Sheffield United, and a fifth League title in 1937–38, pipping Wolves on the final day of the season, to cap off a highly successful decade.[56]  
  Soon after the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, all first-class football in Britain was suspended, and the 1939–40 Football League season annulled. Highbury was requisitioned as an ARP station, with a barrage balloon operating behind the Clock End. During the Blitz, a bomb fell on the North Bank, destroying the roof and setting fire to the scrap that was being stored on the terrace. With Highbury closed, Arsenal instead played their home matches at White Hart Lane, home of their rivals Tottenham Hotspur.[57] Wartime matches do not count in official statistics; competitions were played on a regional basis and teams often did not complete a full season; many footballers served in the armed forces as trainers or instructors and were away from their clubs for long periods of time, so they would often star as "guests" at other clubs. Arsenal won the Football League War Cup South in 1942–43 and the Football League (South) or London League titles in 1939–40, 1941–42 and 1942–43.[58] In 1941 Arsenal were one of a number of clubs expelled from membership of the Football League for refusing to participate in the wartime Football League (South) and organising a rebel London League; it was not until April 1942 that they were readmitted after expressing regret and paying a £10 fine.[59]  
  In November 1945, with league competition still suspended, Arsenal were one of the teams that played a Dynamo Moscow side touring the UK. With many players still serving abroad in the armed forces, Arsenal were severely depleted and used six guest players, including Stanley Matthews and Stan Mortensen, which led Dynamo to declare they were playing an England XI.[60] The match, at White Hart Lane, kicked off in thick fog and Dynamo won 4–3, after Arsenal had led 3–1 at half-time. Though the score is generally agreed upon, after that accounts of the match diverge; even the identity of the goalscorers is disputed.[c] English reports alleged that Dynamo fielded twelve players at one point and tried to pressurise the referee into abandoning the match when they had been losing; in turn, the Soviets accused Arsenal of persistent foul play and even alleged that Allison had bet money on the result, a claim that was later retracted.[62] The acrimony after the match was such that it inspired George Orwell to write his 1945 essay The Sporting Spirit, in which he opined on the nature of sport, namely that in his view "it is war minus the shooting".[63]  
  The war claimed the lives of nine Arsenal players, the most of any top-flight club,[64] and the intervening time had cut short the careers of several others, including Bastin and Drake. Additionally, the debts from the construction of Highbury and the costs of repairing war damage were a heavy financial burden, and Arsenal struggled at first when competitive football resumed in 1946. They lost 6–1 on aggregate to West Ham United in the third round of the 1945–46 FA Cup, and upon the league's resumption in 1946–47 the club finished 13th, their worst in 17 years.[32] Allison decided to retire from football at the end of that season, and was replaced by his assistant Tom Whittaker, a long-time servant of the club who had been trainer under Chapman. Whittaker enjoyed immediate success, winning the League title in the 1947–48 season; led by captain Joe Mercer's strong defence and with goals from attacking front two of Reg Lewis and Ronnie Rooke, Arsenal were top of the table from October until the season's climax, winning by a seven-point margin.[65] However, given the age of the Arsenal side at the time (Rooke and Mercer were both over thirty, as were brothers Denis and Leslie Compton), long-term success was not possible. In response, Whittaker had brought in younger players such as Doug Lishman, Alex Forbes and Cliff Holton.[66] Although Arsenal were unable to sustain any challenges for the League title, with the new blood they won the FA Cup in 1949–50, with Reg Lewis scoring both goals in a 2–0 win over Liverpool in the final.[67]  
  The 1951–52 season saw the club nearly win the Double of League and FA Cup, but ultimately end up empty-handed; a series of injuries and a series of postponements leading to the team having to play ten games in a month at the end of the season saw Arsenal lose their last two matches, including the title decider against eventual champions Manchester United at Old Trafford on the last day of the season;[68] after losing 6–1, the Gunners finished third, equal on points with Tottenham.[69] A week later, Arsenal played Newcastle United in the 1952 FA Cup Final, with several recovering players rushed back into the first team; Walley Barnes was taken off injured with a twisted knee after 35 minutes, and ten-man Arsenal suffered further injuries to Holton, Roper and Daniel, so that by the end of the match they had only seven fully fit players on the pitch;[70] with the numerical advantage in their favour, Newcastle won 1–0 with a goal from George Robledo.[71]  
  Arsenal won their seventh League title in the 1952–53 season; in one of the closest title races, they beat Preston North End to the title on goal average after finishing level on points.[72] The title looked to be Preston's after Arsenal lost to them 2–0 at Deepdale in the penultimate game of the season, but Arsenal came from behind to beat Burnley 3–2, to take the title by 0.099 of a goal.[73] That proved to be Arsenal's last trophy for 17 years, as the club's fortunes began to wane, particularly after the unexpected death of Whittaker in October 1956. As the club's fortunes declined, they found themselves unable to attract many stars (Welsh international goalkeeper Jack Kelsey being a notable exception), while up and coming players such as David Herd left for more successful clubs. Jack Crayston and George Swindin, both former players, followed Whittaker but could not replicate his success. Apart from finishing third in 1958–59 and fifth in both 1955–56 and 1956–57, Arsenal usually finished in mid-table.[32] Nor did the club have much luck in the FA Cup—after reaching the final in 1951–52, Arsenal would not get beyond the quarter-finals again until 1970–71.[32] Rivals Tottenham Hotspur won the Double in 1960–61.[74]  
  In 1962, Arsenal made the bold but ultimately unsuccessful step of appointing former England and Wolves captain Billy Wright as manager, despite his lack of managerial experience and the fact that he had no prior experience with the club. Like his two immediate predecessors, Wright was not very successful, although it was under his leadership that the club made their debut in European competition, in the 1963–64 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup after finishing seventh in 1962–63.[32] In his final season, Arsenal finished 14th, their lowest position in 36 years, and recorded the lowest attendance at Highbury—4,554 for a match against Leeds United on 5 May 1966.[75][d] The only Arsenal player to figure in England's 1966 FIFA World Cup-winning squad was George Eastham, who did not play at all during the tournament.[77] Wright was dismissed by the Arsenal board in the summer of 1966 and replaced by club physiotherapist Bertie Mee.[78]  
  ^ Another football team based at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich Union, had been founded in 1884, and some Dial Square players, including Fred Beardsley, had previously played for that side. However, club historians generally regard Dial Square as Arsenal's direct forerunners.[2]  
  ^ The number of goals Dial Square scored is disputed, though six is the officially recorded figure.[3]  
  ^ "Royal Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Richard Rundle. Archived from the original on 14 March 2007. Retrieved 19 March 2012.  
  ^ a b c "Woolwich Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Richard Rundle. Archived from the original on 29 November 2017. Retrieved 19 March 2012.  
  ^ a b c d e f "Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Richard Rundle. Archived from the original on 6 November 2009. Retrieved 19 March 2012.  
  ^ "Club Records". Arsenal.com. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 3 May 2007.  
  Rippon, Anton (2007). Gas Masks for Goal Posts: Football in Britain During the Second World War. Sutton. ISBN 978-0-7509-4031-3.  
  Rollin, Jack (2005). Soccer At War 1935–45. London: Headline. ISBN 0-7553-1431-X.  
  Roper, Alan (2003). The Real Arsenal Story: In the Days of Gog. Wherry. ISBN 0-9546259-0-0.  
  History of Arsenal F.C. (1966–present)  
  The history of Arsenal Football Club from 1966 to the present day covers the third, fourth, and fifth periods of success in Arsenal's history, including three Doubles, a Cup Double, and success in European football, and an unbeaten league season.  
  Following Bertie Mee's appointment in 1966, Arsenal won the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup, their first European trophy, in 1969–70, and their first League and FA Cup double in 1970–71. The Double-winning side, however, was soon broken up and the following decade was characterised by a series of near misses: Arsenal lost three FA Cup finals (1971–72, 1977–78, and 1979–80) and the 1979–80 Cup Winners' Cup final on penalties. The club's only success during this time was an FA Cup win in 1978–79 against Manchester United.  
  After stagnation in the 1980s, the return of former player George Graham as manager in 1986 brought a third period of glory. Arsenal won the League Cup in 1986–87, the Football League Centenary Trophy in 1988, two League title wins in 1988–89 and 1990–91, the FA Cup and League Cup double in 1992–93 and a second European trophy, the Cup Winners' Cup, in 1993–94. However, Graham's reputation was tarnished when it was revealed that he had taken kickbacks for signing certain players and he was sacked in 1995.  
  Arsenal's fifth period of success came with the appointment of Arsène Wenger in 1996. Under him, Arsenal won a second league and cup double in 1997–98 and then a third in 2001–02. In addition, the club were victorious in the 2002–03 and 2004–05 FA Cups, and won the Premier League in 2003–04 without losing a single match. In 2005–06 became the first London club to reach the UEFA Champions League Final, but lost 2–1 against FC Barcelona. During the following close season, they left their longstanding home of Highbury to the new Emirates Stadium nearby. They started in their new home with a seven-year trophy drought, followed by winning 3 FA Cups in the next four seasons.  
  Following the dismissal of Billy Wright in the summer of 1966, Arsenal appointed physiotherapist Bertie Mee as his successor. The move that brought surprise to some, not least Mee himself, who requested that he be able to return to his old role as physio if being manager had not worked out after 12 months.[1] With assistant Dave Sexton, Mee brought a more professional approach to the club and promoted talent from within; Arsenal's youth team had won the FA Youth Cup in 1966, and talented attacking players such as Charlie George, John Radford, Peter Simpson and Ray Kennedy graduated to the first team.  
  Mee complemented this attacking ability with some more experienced heads; captain Frank McLintock at centre half marshalled a strong defence, while the hard-tackling Peter Storey filled the defensive midfield position. The team showed early signs of promise, reaching two successive League Cup finals, in 1968 and 1969. Both times the Gunners went home empty-handed. The first time Arsenal lost to Don Revie's Leeds United 1–0 in a dour match of few chances, Terry Cooper grabbing the only goal.  
  The second League Cup loss was an infamous upset – Arsenal lost 3–1 to Third Division side Swindon Town. Eight of the team had been struck by flu that had led to the postponement of Arsenal's previous League fixture,[2] and Arsenal had only reached extra time thanks to a late goalkeeping error that had allowed Bobby Gould to score. In extra time, Don Rogers scored twice as Arsenal searched for a winner. However, that season was not a total disaster for Arsenal; they had also finished fourth, which won them a place in Europe for the 1969–70 season.  
  In turn, this led to the club collecting their first silverware in seventeen years and also their first European trophy, the 1969–70 Inter-Cities Fairs Cup. Arsenal beat Ajax 3–1 on aggregate in the semi-finals, and then staged a famous comeback against Anderlecht in the final.[3] Arsenal were 3-0 down after 74 minutes of the first leg at Stade Émile Versé, but Ray Kennedy got a late away goal to give the Gunners a glimmer of hope; in the second leg in front of a packed Highbury, inspired by captain Frank McLintock, Arsenal won 3–0 with goals from John Radford, Eddie Kelly and Jon Sammels, to win the tie 4–3 on aggregate.  
  The same season, Arsenal had only finished 12th in the league, perhaps distracted by their European campaign, and did not look like league contenders. Yet the following season, 1970–71, Arsenal went on to become only the second club of the 20th century to win the FA Cup and League Double, the club's first. After a bright start Arsenal looked to be out of the title chase with a 5–0 loss to Stoke City in September. However, Arsenal recovered and put in a strong run (they did not lose again in the league until January), and as the season closed they became involved in a tight race with Leeds United.  
  Arsenal were pushed all the way – after being defeated 1–0 by Leeds in April, they needed to beat or draw 0–0 with North London rivals Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane on the last day of the season to take the title on goal average. An 87th-minute goal by Ray Kennedy gave Arsenal a 1–0 lead and despite Spurs' desperate attempts for an equaliser Arsenal hung on to win and take the title. In the meantime, Arsenal had also reached the FA Cup Final, following a titanic semi-final battle with Stoke which saw them come from 2–0 down to force a replay and eventual victory. In the Final, five days after the win at Tottenham, Arsenal beat Liverpool 2–1 at Wembley; Arsenal went 1–0 down early in extra time, before Eddie Kelly's 101st-minute equaliser from close range.[4] Ten minutes later, Charlie George scored the winner from the edge of the penalty area to win the game, and the Double, for Arsenal.  
  The Double proved to be a premature high point of a decade characterised by a string of near-misses. Despite signing World Cup winner Alan Ball for a club record £220,000 in the close season, Arsenal began 1971–72 badly, losing three matches in August,[5] and were forced to play catch-up for the rest of the season, ultimately finishing fifth. Their debut in the European Cup started encouragingly, but they were knocked out in the quarter-finals by a Johann Cruyff-inspired Ajax, who went on to win the trophy as part of a hat-trick of European titles. Arsenal also reached the FA Cup Final for the second year in a row; in a repeat of the 1968 League Cup Final they lost 1–0 to Leeds United, in an ugly match of few real chances.[6]  
  Arsenal finished as First Division runners-up in 1972–73, but within a year the Double-winning side had been broken up, and Mee was unable to build a new team in its place. The club's form declined sharply, finishing 16th in 1974–75 and 17th in 1975–76, their lowest in more than forty years, which prompted Mee's resignation. Tottenham manager Terry Neill, a former Arsenal player, was appointed in his place, even though he had never got Spurs anywhere beyond mid-table, to become Arsenal's youngest-ever manager.  
  Arsenal moved back into the top half of the table, inspired in part by the emergence of Irish superstar Liam Brady. Brady formed part of a large Irish contingent at Highbury, which included Pat Rice, Frank Stapleton, Pat Jennings Sammy Nelson, John Devine and the young David O'Leary. Further to this were experienced signings such as Malcolm Macdonald and Alan Hudson, as well as the return of Don Howe, who had been part of the backroom staff when the Double was won, to the Arsenal coaching setup.  
  Although they could not challenge the League dominance of Liverpool at the time, towards the end of the decade they proved their mettle in the FA Cup. Arsenal reached three finals in a row (1978, 1979, and 1980), but won only one, the 1979 final against Manchester United. Largely inspired by Brady, Arsenal went 2–0 up through Brian Talbot and Frank Stapleton and looked to be coasting to victory; with five minutes to go, United scored twice in quick succession to level the match. Extra time loomed, but Alan Sunderland converted Graham Rix's cross in injury time to secure a famous 3–2 win.  
  The next season, 1979–80, proved to be cruel as Arsenal played a record-breaking 70 matches and reached two cup finals, only to end the season empty-handed. Arsenal were favourites to beat Second Division West Ham United in the FA Cup final, but lost 1–0 to a Trevor Brooking header. Meanwhile, they had also reached the Cup Winners' Cup final against Valencia, after Paul Vaessen's goal had given them a famous victory over Juventus in the semi-finals; the final finished goalless and Arsenal lost on penalties, with Brady and Rix having their efforts saved.  
  Liam Brady left Arsenal for Juventus in the summer of 1980, and the team entered another barren spell. They continued to finish in the top four at the start of the 1980s, but never really looked like winning the title, and they could not rediscover their FA Cup form either – aside from 1982–83 when Arsenal reached both cup semi-finals only to be knocked out in both by Manchester United. Neill struggled to control his team at times; throughout his tenure, he had fallings-out with many of his players (including Hudson and Macdonald) and he was unable to contain the drinking culture within the squad.[7] His signings to replace the departed Brady and Stapleton failed to make the same impact, and towards the end of Neill's reign the club suffered several embarrassing cup defeats; this included losing to part-timers K.F.C. Winterslag in the 1981–82 UEFA Cup and Third Division Walsall in the 1983–84 League Cup. Neill was sacked in December 1983, soon after the latter result.  
  Don Howe, Neill's assistant, succeeded him but he could not get the side anywhere near a trophy either. Although Arsenal managed to finish sixth and seventh under him, they never seriously challenged for the title (although they did briefly top the league in October 1984) and were dumped out of the 1984–85 FA Cup by Third Division York City. The fans were getting increasingly disillusioned with the club's muddling performances and attendances started to dip beneath 20,000.[8] In March 1986, after hearing the board had approached FC Barcelona coach Terry Venables as his replacement,[9] Howe resigned. Steve Burtenshaw was briefly caretaker manager but the club decided to look to outside for Howe's long-term successor.  
  The Arsenal board of directors did contact Scottish club Aberdeen with a view to offering the job to their manager Alex Ferguson (while also drawing up an offer to Millwall manager George Graham to become assistant manager of Arsenal), but Ferguson rejected the offer. However, Ferguson did cross the border six months later to succeed Ron Atkinson at Manchester United.[10]  
  In May 1986, Millwall manager George Graham, a former Arsenal player, was appointed as Howe's long-term replacement, and it was the beginning of a new era of success at Highbury. Graham gradually sold off most of the older players and replaced them with new signings and players promoted from the youth team, while imposing much stricter discipline than his predecessors, both in the dressing room and on the pitch. Arsenal's form immediately improved, so much so that the club were top of the League at Christmas 1986.  
  Though Arsenal finished fourth in Graham's first season in charge (having led the First Division for most of the winter), Arsenal did win the League Cup, in a campaign marked by comebacks. Arsenal faced Tottenham Hotspur in the semi-finals; after losing 1–0 at Highbury in the first leg and conceding a second goal in the first half of the second leg at White Hart Lane, Arsenal scored twice through Viv Anderson and Niall Quinn to draw 2–2 on aggregate and force a replay;[11] in the replay Spurs went 1–0 up, only for Arsenal to come back again with late goals from Ian Allinson and David Rocastle to win. The final against Liverpool was a repeat performance; after Arsenal had gone 1–0 down to an Ian Rush goal, two Charlie Nicholas goals brought Arsenal their first League Cup triumph and their first major trophy for eight years. However, UEFA voted to continue the ban on English clubs in European competitions that was imposed in the wake of the Heysel disaster in 1985 for a third season, and this meant that Arsenal were unable to compete in the 1987–88 UEFA Cup.  
  While Arsenal lost the League Cup final the following year in a shock 3–2 defeat to Luton Town and dipped to sixth place in the league, their League form steadily improved afterwards, thanks largely to a revamped defence which consisted of Lee Dixon, Nigel Winterburn, Steve Bould and Tony Adams, which formed the basis of Arsenal's successes for a decade or more. Until he left in 1993, long-serving defender David O'Leary remained an important member of the squad who frequently appeared as a substitute and filled in whenever the younger members of the back four were unavailable. However, during this time Graham's Arsenal were not a purely defensive side; Graham also employed capable midfielders such as David Rocastle, Michael Thomas and Paul Merson, and striker Alan Smith, whose prolific goalscoring regularly brought him more than 20 goals in most of the eight seasons he spent at the club.  
  In Graham's third season (1988–89), the club won the Football League Centenary Trophy before winning their first League title since 1971, in highly dramatic fashion. Having led the League since Christmas, Arsenal were overtaken by Liverpool after losing to Derby County and drawing at home to Wimbledon in May. Arsenal had seemingly thrown away the title, but the final game of the season, on 26 May, was against Liverpool at Anfield; Arsenal needed to win by two goals to take the title; Liverpool had already won the FA Cup and were favourites to complete the Double. Alan Smith scored for Arsenal early in the second half to make it 1–0, but as time ticked by Arsenal struggled to get a second, and with 90 minutes gone on the clock, Arsenal still needed another goal and it looked as though the league title would be staying at Anfield. But, with only seconds to go, a Smith flick-on found Michael Thomas surging through the Liverpool defence; the young midfielder lifted the ball over Bruce Grobbelaar and into the net, giving Arsenal the title.  
  Arsenal did not retain the title the following season; they finished fourth in 1989–90 and fell behind champions Liverpool, runners-up Aston Villa and third-placed Tottenham Hotspur in the title challenge. They also failed to make their mark in the cups, and the post-Heysel ban on English clubs in European competition was still in force at that time, so Arsenal were unable to represent England in the European Cup. The ban was lifted at the end of the season, though Liverpool (the team present at the Heysel disaster) had to serve an extra year.  
  Graham prepared for another title challenge by signing goalkeeper David Seaman and Swedish winger Anders Limpar in the summer of 1990; both players proved vital as Arsenal retook the title in 1990–91, despite two major setbacks. Arsenal had two points deducted in November 1990 after ten of their players were involved in a brawl with Manchester United players in a match at Old Trafford, and captain Tony Adams was sentenced to four months' imprisonment for drink driving just before Christmas. Despite these setbacks, Arsenal lost only one league match all season and finished seven points clear of Liverpool at the end of what had for most of the season been a two-horse race for the title. They also reached the FA Cup semi-finals, where they faced Tottenham Hotspur; Paul Gascoigne scored with a free kick from 30 yards after just five minutes and Tottenham ran home 3–1 winners, dashing hopes of a unique second Double.  
  In September 1991, Arsenal paid a club record of £2.5million for Crystal Palace striker Ian Wright, who would go on to spend seven years at the club and become their all-time leading goalscorer in the process. The 1991–92 season saw the club's first entry in the European Cup for 20 years. The European venture went badly; Arsenal were knocked out by Benfica in the second round and failed to make the lucrative group stage. The season went from bad to worse when the Gunners were knocked out of the FA Cup by lowly Wrexham, though Arsenal recovered to finish fourth in the League. The ban on English clubs in European competitions had been lifted two years earlier, but Arsenal missed out on a UEFA Cup place as English clubs were gradually being phased back into European competitions and at this stage only the second and third placed teams were qualifying for the UEFA Cup.  
  During the 1992 close season the club acquired Danish midfielder John Jensen, who had just won Euro 92 with Denmark, scoring a goal in their victory over Germany in the final. Jensen's arrival coincided with the departure of fellow midfielder David Rocastle to Leeds United, the defending league champions. Around this point, Graham altered his tactics; he became more defensive and turned out far less attack-minded sides, which depended mainly on goals from Wright rather than the whole team. Between 1986–87 and 1991–92 Arsenal averaged 66 League goals a season (scoring 81 in 1991–92), but between 1992–93 and 1994–95 they only averaged 48;[12] this included just 40 in 1992–93, when the club finished 10th in the inaugural season of the FA Premier League, scoring fewer than any other team in the division, though they had briefly topped the table in November.[13]  
  They were founder members of the FA Premier League on its launch for the 1992–93 season. They lost their first ever Premiership game 4–2 after taking a 2–0 lead over underdogs Norwich City at Highbury; Norwich, among the pre-season relegation favourites, were actively involved in the title race and finished third, whereas Arsenal (among the pre-season title favourites) finished 10th.[14]  
  Arsenal's form in the cups was much better than in the league, and in 1992–93 they became the first side to win the FA Cup and League Cup double. In the League Cup final, Arsenal faced Sheffield Wednesday; a Merson-inspired Arsenal side came from 1–0 down to win 2–1 thanks to a Steve Morrow goal. In the FA Cup, Arsenal beat Spurs 1–0 in the semi-finals (avenging their defeat of 1991), and played Sheffield Wednesday in the final, just as they had done in the League Cup final a few weeks earlier. The game ended 1–1 and went to a replay; Wright opened the scoring for Arsenal but Chris Waddle equalised. Extra time came, and still no goal broke the deadlock until the 120th minute, when Andy Linighan powered home a header from a corner to win the match and the cup double for Arsenal.  
  In 1993–94, Arsenal won their second European trophy; a side missing key players (John Jensen and Martin Keown were injured, while Ian Wright was suspended), beat favourites and holders Parma 1–0 in the Cup Winners' Cup final in Copenhagen, with a tight defensive performance and Alan Smith's 21st-minute goal from a left foot volley. The 1994 Cup Winners' Cup proved to be George Graham's last trophy at the club; the following February the Scot was sacked after nearly nine years in charge, after it was discovered he had accepted an illegal £425,000 payment from Norwegian agent Rune Hauge following Arsenal's 1992 acquisition of John Jensen, one of Hauge's clients.[15]  
  In the weeks before Graham was sacked, he made three major signings for Arsenal. Glenn Helder, a Dutch winger signed from Vitesse, was a regular first-team player for more than a year after joining the club but was then loaned to Benfica before permanently departing in October 1997 to join NAC Breda back in the Netherlands. Chris Kiwomya, an attacking midfielder signed from Ipswich Town, scored 3 goals in 17 matches before the end of the season but never played for the club again, finally departing in 1998 to sign for Queens Park Rangers. Nineteen-year-old Welsh striker John Hartson was signed from Luton Town and occupied the first-team place vacated by the injury-hit Alan Smith, who retired from playing months later. However, Hartson was not a regular player the following season and was sold to West Ham United in 1997.  
  George Graham's final season at Arsenal was also the final season at the club for several of the club's key players. Alan Smith, one of his first signings, was forced into retirement by injury several months later. Paul Davis, the club's longest-serving player, was given a free transfer at the season's end, having found his first team opportunities increasingly limited towards the end of his time at Arsenal. Swedish midfielder Stefan Schwarz was sold to Fiorentina that summer after just one season at Highbury. Striker Kevin Campbell, who had struggled to establish himself as a regular player in spite of some impressive performances over five seasons, was sold to Nottingham Forest. Winger Jimmy Carter, who had failed to establish himself as a regular player in four seasons at Arsenal, was sold to Portsmouth.  
  Assistant manager Stewart Houston took charge until the end of the 1994–95 season. Arsenal finished 12th in the Premier League. However, they did reach the Cup Winners' Cup final again, after a titanic semi-final against Sampdoria, which they won on penalties after drawing 5–5 on aggregate. Arsenal faced Real Zaragoza in the final; Esnáider scored for the Spaniards and John Hartson equalised for Arsenal. The game was heading to a 1–1 draw and penalties, before midfielder Nayim struck from 40 yards in the 120th minute, in virtually the last kick of the game. David Seaman, who had been Arsenal's hero in the semi-final shootout, could not backpedal fast enough and only got a hand to the ball as it went in.  
  In June 1995, Arsenal appointed Bruce Rioch, who had just guided Bolton Wanderers to the League Cup final and promotion to the top flight, as manager. He (briefly) broke the English transfer record by paying Internazionale £7.5 million for Dutch striker Dennis Bergkamp, and the new signing formed an impressive partnership with Ian Wright. Arsenal reached the League Cup semi-finals and finished fifth in the Premiership at the end of 1995–96, securing a place in the following season's UEFA Cup and giving hope for an eventual title challenge. However, the Rioch era ended abruptly: in August 1996, just before the start of the new season, Rioch was sacked after a dispute over transfer funds with the board of directors, triggering a couple of months' turmoil at the club. Stewart Houston was once again put in temporary charge; he remained at the helm for a month, before resigning to take over at QPR. Youth team coach Pat Rice held the fort for several games, before making way for the Frenchman Arsène Wenger at the end of September.  
  Wenger's arrival and two Doubles (1996–2003)[edit]  
  The team immediately improved under Wenger's management, coming third and winning a UEFA Cup place in 1996–97, missing out on second (and a Champions League spot) on goal difference. Wenger rebuilt the Arsenal squad with a crop of French players who were largely unknown in the UK. Patrick Vieira had been signed on Wenger's recommendation before he had officially taken up the reins, and Wenger added Nicolas Anelka and Emmanuel Petit, as well as Dutch winger Marc Overmars in the summer of 1997. Wenger melded the new arrivals with some of the "old guard", retaining Adams, Dixon, Winterburn, Keown and Bould, and he kept Pat Rice on as assistant manager.  
  Wenger got his first silverware, and became the first foreign manager to win the English league, the following season, when he steered the side to their second double. It had looked like Arsenal were out of the title race by December after losing 3–1 at home to Blackburn, but they overcame a twelve-point deficit to overtake Manchester United; a 4–0 home win over Everton on 3 May won the title with two matches to spare. On 16 May, Arsenal beat Newcastle United 2–0 in the FA Cup final to complete the double. To top it off, the same season Ian Wright broke Cliff Bastin's goalscoring record, bringing his tally to 185 goals before leaving the club in the summer of 1998.  
  Despite the signing of Freddie Ljungberg in 1998 and Thierry Henry a year later, a more barren period followed for Arsenal over the next few years, though they came close several times. Arsenal led the League for much of 1998–99, until a 1–0 loss to Leeds United allowed Manchester United to overtake them; Arsenal beat Aston Villa on the last day of the season but United's victory over Spurs meant they took the title. To rub it in further, Arsenal also lost the last ever FA Cup semi-final replay to Manchester United; Dennis Bergkamp had missed a penalty in normal time, and Ryan Giggs scored the winner in extra time after a mazy solo run through the Arsenal defence. Arsenal's return to the Champions League for the first time in seven years was also unsuccessful, as they failed to get past the group stage.  
  Arsenal came second again in 1999–2000; this time, there was never any real title race and Arsenal finished the season 18 points behind winners Manchester United. Arsenal had another poor season in the Champions League, finishing third in their group; this won them a consolation place in the UEFA Cup, and Arsenal got all the way to the final, where they faced Galatasaray in Copenhagen, the scene of their 1994 Cup Winners' Cup triumph. The match was a tepid affair, a 0–0 draw with few chances; it went to penalties and Arsenal lost after Davor Šuker and Patrick Vieira missed their spot-kicks.  
  Arsenal again finished second in 2000–01, this time ten points behind Manchester United; the title race had been as good as over since February, when Arsenal lost 6–1 at Old Trafford. Arsenal's season gave priority to the Cups and Europe. They beat Spurs in the semi-finals and met Liverpool in the final at the Millennium Stadium, Cardiff; Arsenal dominated most of the match, and were denied a goal by the arm of defender Stéphane Henchoz, which went unpunished.[16] Arsenal finally did go 1–0 up through Ljungberg but succumbed to two late Michael Owen goals and lost 2–1. In Europe, Arsenal made it to the Champions League quarter-finals for the first time since 1972, only to be eliminated on the away goals rule by eventual finalists Valencia.  
  By now, Wenger had been forced to rebuild much of the Double-winning side of 1998; Anelka, Overmars and Petit had all left for Spanish clubs in return for hefty fees, while age was finally catching up with the famous back line; Bould and Winterburn had already left, and Adams and Dixon would only last another season before retiring. In their place, Wenger signed the likes of Sol Campbell and Lauren in defence, as well as promoting Ashley Cole from the youth ranks. In midfield, Wenger added the talismanic Robert Pires and signed his compatriot Sylvain Wiltord in attack, while in the meantime Thierry Henry had adapted to the English game to become one of the Premiership's best strikers.  
  Attack was definitely Arsenal's forté as they won a record-equalling third Double in 2001–02 season; the Gunners were the only team to score in every game of the Premiership season, and went unbeaten in domestic away games. After an initially tight title race (just three points separated the top four in February), Arsenal pulled away from the pack with a 13-game winning streak, finishing seven points ahead of runners-up Liverpool. Arsenal secured the title in the penultimate match of the season with a 1–0 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford, the goal coming from Wiltord. The previous weekend, Arsenal had wrapped up their eighth FA Cup, beating Chelsea 2–0 with goals from Ray Parlour and Freddie Ljungberg.  
  In 2002–03, Arsenal became the first club in more than 20 years to retain the FA Cup, with a 1–0 victory against Southampton thanks to a Pires goal. Their joy was soured by the fact that they narrowly missed out on retaining the Premiership title. Arsenal had led eventual winners Manchester United by eight points at one stage, but their form collapsed late on in the season; they drew 2–2 away to Bolton Wanderers after leading 2–0, and then lost 3–2 at home to Leeds United a week later, which gave United the title.  
  The "Invincibles" and a Champions League Final (2003–06)[edit]  
  Little did they know it at the time, but the defeat to Leeds would be Arsenal's last in the League for over a year. 2003–04 was a record-breaking season for Arsenal, as they won the Premiership unbeaten (26 wins, 12 draws, 0 defeats), finishing a clear 11 points ahead of second-place Chelsea. They became only the second team to do so, the first having been Preston North End in 1888–89. Their rivals for the title gained revenge in other competitions – Arsenal were defeated in the Champions League quarter-finals and FA Cup semi-finals by Chelsea and Manchester United, respectively, in successive matches. Faced with the potential collapse of their season, Arsenal recovered from being 1–0 and 2–1 behind to Liverpool in their next league match to win 4–2, thanks to a Thierry Henry hat-trick, and went on to win the league with a 2–2 draw away to Tottenham Hotspur, mimicking their success in 1971.  
  Arsenal were unable to retain the title in 2004–05, finishing second, 12 points behind a record-breaking Chelsea side. However, the Gunners did stretch their unbeaten run to 49 consecutive matches, an English league football record; the record was equalled with a dramatic 5–3 win over Middlesbrough (Arsenal having trailed 3–1 shortly after half-time) and then surpassed with a 3–0 win over Blackburn Rovers in August 2004, before their unbeaten season was ended with a 2–0 away defeat by Manchester United. This defeat arguably upset the team's form and they fell away from title contention before recovering with a late flourish to finish second, sealed with a 7–0 drubbing of Everton. Champions League glory eluded them again, with the club getting knocked out 3–2 on aggregate by Bayern Munich in the second round. Arsenal did not end the season empty-handed; they came away with their third FA Cup in four years, winning 5–4 on penalties after a 0–0 draw where they played ten versus eleven against Manchester United.  
  Weakened by the sale of captain Patrick Vieira to Juventus in the summer of 2005, Arsenal's 2005–06 season was comparatively disappointing domestically and the club failed to challenge for any trophies at home. In the league, their poor away form dogged them and despite recording some impressive wins at home (5–0 over Aston Villa, and 7–0 over Middlesbrough), Arsenal spent much of the latter stages of the season in fifth place or lower, and looked set to miss out on the Champions League for the first time since 1997. However, they won their last three matches of the season, culminating in a 4–2 victory over Wigan Athletic in the last ever match at Highbury; coupled with Tottenham Hotspur's loss at West Ham the same day, this meant Arsenal pipped Spurs to fourth place and a Champions League spot.  
  In contrast to their domestic form, Arsenal's form in Europe in 2005–06 was much stronger; they reached the UEFA Champions League final for the first time in their history, becoming the first London club ever to do so. Arsenal finished top of their group unbeaten, above Ajax, Thun and Sparta Prague against whom Thierry Henry scored two goals on away to become the all-time record goalscorer for Arsenal; in the knockout stages they beat Real Madrid (becoming the first British team to beat Madrid at the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium), Juventus and then Villarreal to reach the final, setting a competition record of ten matches without conceding a goal in the process. In the final, against Barcelona, Arsenal were reduced to ten men early on when goalkeeper Jens Lehmann was sent off for a professional foul; nevertheless they were the ones who scored first, Sol Campbell scoring with a header from a free kick in the 37th minute. Arsenal desperately defended their lead, but two late goals from Samuel Eto'o and Juliano Belletti meant Barcelona ran out 2–1 winners.  
  Move to the Emirates and trophy drought (2006–13)[edit]  
  Arsenal had been highly successful in the 1990s and 2000s, but Highbury's capacity was limited to only 38,500 in the post-Taylor report era; virtually every match was sold out and the club were unable to maximise matchday revenue. With expansion of Highbury ruled impossible, in 1999, Arsenal announced plans to move to nearby Ashburton Grove; construction started in December 2002 with the demolition of buildings on the site, and in July 2006, the new Emirates Stadium opened, ready for the start of the 2006–07 season.  
  Arsenal took a little time to get used to their new surroundings and as early as November, manager Arsène Wenger conceded that his side was unlikely to make a serious challenge for the title.[17] Dogged by poor away form throughout the season, Arsenal eventually finished fourth, level on points with third-placed Liverpool. With a team largely filled with reserve and younger players, they reached the League Cup Final, which they lost 2–1 to Chelsea. They were less successful in other competitions, however, being knocked out early on in both the Champions League and FA Cup.  
  The move to the Emirates had transitional effects on the pitch as well as off of it, as Arsenal lost a number of the Invincibles side, including Robert Pires, Dennis Bergkamp, Lauren, Ashley Cole and Sol Campbell in 2006, and a year later club captain and all-time record scorer Thierry Henry departed for Barcelona. Arsene Wenger was building a new side, with the likes of Cesc Fabregas, Emmanuel Adebayor and Theo Walcott being drafted into the side. The young team made a strong bid for the title in 2007/08, completing a club-record unbeaten run of 28 games and leading the league until February, when an injury to striker Eduardo proved a turning point, as the Gunners finished third. The side made two more bids for the title, in 2010[18] and 2011,[19] but both campaigns followed similar patterns; Arsenal would be involved in the race deep into the season before suffering an untimely loss of form. The club also began making stronger Champions League challenges, reaching the quarter-finals in 2008 and 2010 and the semi-finals in 2009. However, the young side ultimately failed to win a trophy; the closest the Gunners came was a League Cup final defeat to Birmingham City in 2011. As a result, the side began to break up-Arsenal lost Fabregas and Samir Nasri in 2011 and captain Robin van Persie in 2012, and failed to really replace them, and in 2011-12 and 2012-13 spent the seasons fighting for the top four instead of the title, as they struggled to compete with the financial advantages held by Manchester United, Chelsea and Manchester City. However, the side still had not dropped below fourth in the final table since 1996, and were capable still of excellent performances. However, in Europe, their fortunes were waning-Arsenal were eliminated in the last-16 stage of the Champions League for seven years running between 2011 and 2017, though in 2011 did record a famous first-leg win over Barcelona.[20]  
  End of the drought and Wenger's departure (2013–18)[edit]  
  Arsenal's nine-year trophy drought came to an end in 2014, as they won the FA Cup for the fifth time under Wenger. A new era had begun with the signing of German superstar Mesüt Ozil from Real Madrid in summer 2013[21] for 40 million to break the club's transfer record. The Gunners had a fine start to the league season, leading the table until February before once again they lost their form in the key months to finish fourth; however in the FA Cup Arsenal reached the final without travelling outside London, and, despite going 2-0 down inside eight minutes to Hull City, turned it around to win 3-2 and end their trophy drought.[22] The Gunners retained the cup with a 4-0 thumping of Aston Villa in 2015,[23] having signed Chilean striker Alexis Sanchez from Barcelona in the summer,[24] similarly to Ozil's signing. In 2016 Arsenal record their highest league finish at the Emirates, finishing second behind 5000-1 winners Leicester City, having once again led the league in February.  
  In 2017 they won the FA Cup for a record thirteenth time-and a record seventh under Wenger,[25] who became the most successful manager in the competitions history, but fell out of the top four for the first time since 1996, finishing fifth to end their 19-year run in the UEFA Champions League. In 2017–18, the Gunners were knocked out of the UEFA Europa League at the semi-final stage, and reached the League Cup final for the third time under Wenger, losing 3–0 to Manchester City, but endured an eventful off-pitch season; they lost Theo Walcott, Olivier Giroud and Alexis Sanchez in January and twice broke the clubs transfer record, for Alexandre Lacazette[26] in the summer and Gabonese Pièrre-Emerick Aubameyang[27] in January. Most significantly though, Arsène Wenger announced his resignation after 22 years in charge, leaving as the clubs longest-serving and most successful manager.[28] A month afterwards, the club announced that former Paris-Saint Germain manager Unai Emery would be taking over in a new role of “head coach”, instead of manager.[29]  
  Despite early promise, Unai Emery's Arsenal reign was ultimately short-lived, as he was sacked just 18 months into the job.[30] A 22-game unbeaten run at the start of the season had fans optimistic about the clubs future under the Spaniard, but they failed to return to the Champions League, finishing fifth in the league. In the Europa League, Arsenal reached the final, their first in Europe in 13 years, but lost 4–1 to Chelsea in Baku. A nine-game winless run in October–November of the next season resulted in Emery being dismissed from his position as head coach of the first team by the Arsenal board.  
  After a three-week caretaker stint from assistant manager and former Invincible Freddie Ljungberg, Arsenal hired former club captain Mikel Arteta as head coach,[31] with Arteta having been previously working as assistant with Pep Guardiola at Manchester City. However, less than three months into Arteta's reign, the season was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. After the season's resumption 100 days later, with all matches played behind closed doors, Arsenal secured a disappointing 8th in the league standings, but made up for it with a record-extending 14th FA Cup win, which came just 28 games into Arteta's reign; Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, installed as captain in November, scored twice in a 2–1 win over Chelsea in the final,[32] although no fans were in attendance.  
  Despite displaying some early-season promise, Arsenal once again finished 8th in the league in 2020–21, and were eliminated in the semi-finals of the Europa League, meaning they would compete the 2021–22 season not in any European competition for the first time since 1995–96. In April 2021 the club was one of the twelve founding members of the breakaway European Super League, but was one of the first to withdraw after heavy public backlash.[33] In the 2021–22 season, Arsenal found themselves bottom of the league at the end of August, but recovered to challenge for the top four spots. In May, they held pole position over local rivals Tottenham but eventually finished fifth, and exited both cup competitions in January, to Nottingham Forest in the FA Cup third round and Liverpool in the EFL Cup semi-finals.[34]  
  In the following season, Arsenal began with winning all of their games in August, a complete reverse from the previous year, and were top of the league by the time the World Cup began. However despite occupying top spot for the majority of the season, only four wins in the final two months of the season meant that they finished as runners-up to Manchester City, and they had broken the record for most days spent at the top without winning the league title (Ironically, the last time that there was a longer one was Leeds United in 1971, the year Arsenal beat Leeds to the title). They were also knocked out of the FA Cup by City in the Fourth Round as well.[35]  
  ^ Soar, Phil; Tyler, Martin (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. p. 105. ISBN 0-600-61344-5.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. p. 106.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. p. 122.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. p. 123.  
  ^ This is perhaps best exemplified by Arsenal's disastrous 1977 tour of Australia that ended with Neill sending Hudson and Macdonald home halfway through after they were caught breaking curfew. Reference: Spurling, Jon (2004). Rebels for the Cause: The Alternative History of Arsenal Football Club. Mainstream. pp. 133–151. ISBN 978-1-84018-900-1.  
  ^ Soar & Tyler (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. p. 136.  
  ^ The away goals rule was not in force in the League Cup at the time; had it been then Arsenal would have won the tie on the night.  
  ^ Statistics sourced from "Arsenal". Football Club History Database. 2006. Retrieved 21 September 2006.  
  ^ Graham was eventually banned for a year by the Football Association for his involvement in the scandal, after he admitted he had received an "unsolicited gift" from Hauge. References: Collins, Roy (18 March 2000). "Rune Hauge, international man of mystery". The Guardian. London. Retrieved 27 June 2006.  
  Soar, Phil & Tyler, Martin (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61344-5.: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
  Spurling, Jon (2004). Rebels for the Cause: The Alternative History of Arsenal Football Club. Mainstream. ISBN 978-1-84018-900-1.  
  Adams, Tony with Ridley, Ian (1998). Addicted. HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-218795-7.: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)  
  Lawrence, Amy (1997). Proud to Say That Name: The Marble Hall of Fame. Mainstream. ISBN 1-85158-898-1.  
  Maidment, Jem (2005). The Official Arsenal 100 Greatest Games. Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61376-3.  
  Tossell, David (2002). Seventy-One Guns: The Year of the First Arsenal Double. Mainstream. ISBN 1-84018-589-9.  
  Weaver, Graham (2005). Gunners' Glory: 14 Milestones in Arsenal's History. Mainstream. ISBN 1-84018-667-4.  
  List of Arsenal F.C. records and statistics  
  This article is about all-time records. For a season-by-season statistical breakdown, see List of Arsenal F.C. seasons.  
  Arsenal Football Club is an English professional association football club based in Islington, London. The club was formed in Woolwich in 1886 as Dial Square before being renamed as Royal Arsenal, and then Woolwich Arsenal in 1893.[1] In 1914, the club's name was shortened to Arsenal F.C. after moving to Highbury a year earlier.[2] After spending their first four seasons solely participating in cup tournaments and friendlies, Arsenal became the first southern member admitted into the Football League in 1893.[3] In spite of finishing fifth in the Second Division in 1919, the club was voted to rejoin the First Division at the expense of local rivals Tottenham Hotspur.[4] Since that time, they have not fallen below the first tier of the English football league system and hold the record for the longest uninterrupted period in the top flight.[5] The club remained in the Football League until 1992, when its First Division was superseded as English football's top level by the newly formed Premier League, of which they were an inaugural member.[6]  
  The list encompasses the honours won by Arsenal at national, regional, county and friendly level, records set by the club, their managers and their players. The player records section itemises the club's leading goalscorers and those who have made most appearances in first-team competitions. It also records notable achievements by Arsenal players on the international stage, and the highest transfer fees paid and received by the club. Attendance records at Highbury, the Emirates Stadium, the club's home ground since 2006, and Wembley Stadium, their temporary home for UEFA Champions League games between 1998 and 1999, are also included.  
  Arsenal have won 13 top-flight titles, and hold the record for the most FA Cup wins, with 14. The club's record appearance maker is David O'Leary, who made 722 appearances between 1975 and 1993. Thierry Henry is Arsenal's record goalscorer, scoring 228 goals in total.  
  Arsenal's first ever silverware was won as the Royal Arsenal in 1890. The Kent Junior Cup, won by Royal Arsenal's reserves, was the club's first trophy, while the first team's first trophy came three weeks later when they won the Kent Senior Cup.[7][8] Their first national major honour came in 1930, when they won the FA Cup.[9] The club enjoyed further success in the 1930s, winning another FA Cup and five Football League First Division titles.[10][11] Arsenal won their first league and cup double in the 1970–71 season and twice repeated the feat, in 1997–98 and 2001–02, as well as winning a cup double of the FA Cup and League Cup in 1992–93.[12] In 2003–04, Arsenal recorded an unbeaten top-flight league season, something achieved only once before by Preston North End in 1888–89, who only had to play 22 games.[13] To mark the achievement, a special gold version of the Premier League trophy was commissioned and presented to the club the following season.[14] Their most recent success came in 2023, when they defeated Manchester City 4–1 on penalties to secure their 17th Community Shield title.[15]  
  The following titles are from friendly competitions and exhibition games, where match statistics such as player appearances and goals are not considered in overall figures.  
  Most consecutive appearances: Tom Parker, 172 (from 3 April 1926 to 26 December 1929)[67]  
  Most separate spells with the club: Hugh McDonald, 3 (1905–06; 1908–10 and 1912–13)[71]  
  Competitive matches only, includes appearances as substitute. Numbers in brackets indicate goals scored.[67][68]  
  Most league goals in a season: Ted Drake, 42 goals in the First Division, 1934–35[72]  
  Youngest goalscorer: Cesc Fàbregas, 16 years, 212 days (against Wolverhampton Wanderers, League Cup fourth round, 2 December 2003)[72]  
  Youngest hat-trick scorer: John Radford, 17 years, 315 days (against Wolverhampton Wanderers, First Division, 2 January 1965)[72]  
  Oldest goalscorer: Jock Rutherford, 39 years, 352 days (against Sheffield United, First Division, 20 September 1924)[73]  
  Thierry Henry is the all-time top goalscorer for Arsenal. He passed Ian Wright's eight-year record after scoring twice in a European tie against Sparta Prague in October 2005.[74] Henry was Arsenal's leading goalscorer for seven consecutive seasons, from 1999–2000 to 2005–06.[75]  
  Competitive matches only. Numbers in brackets indicate appearances made.[72][76][77]  
  First players to play in a World Cup for England:[d] Graham Rix and Kenny Sansom against France on 16 June 1982[84]  
  Most players from one club in an England starting line-up: 7, against Italy – the so-called "Battle of Highbury" on 14 November 1934[85]  
  First player to play in a World Cup final: Emmanuel Petit for France against Brazil on 12 July 1998[86]  
  First players to play in a European Championship final: Thierry Henry and Patrick Vieira for France against Italy on 2 July 2000[89]  
  First players to win a European Championship winners' medal: Thierry Henry, Emmanuel Petit and Patrick Vieira (UEFA Euro 2000)[89]  
  At 17 years and 75 days, Theo Walcott became the youngest player to earn an England cap, against Hungary on 30 May 2006.[90]  
  Declan Rice's transfer from West Ham United is Arsenal's record transfer fee paid for a player, the England international joined the club on 15 July 2023 for £100m, with another £5m in additional bonuses.[94] At the time of the transfer, he was the second most expensive signing in Premier League history after Chelsea midfielder Enzo Fernández (£105.6m).[94] English midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain (31 August 2017) and American striker Folarin Balogun (30 August 2023) drew Arsenal's record fee received for a player transfer when they joined Liverpool and Monaco respectively for £35m each.[92][93]  
  In 1928, with Bolton Wanderers in financial trouble, Herbert Chapman's Arsenal made David Jack the first five-digit signing in world football, almost double the previous record; the final fee paid was £10,647 10 shillings.[95] According to Bob Wall, Chapman negotiated the transfer with Bolton's representatives in a hotel bar, his tactic being to drink gin and tonics without any gin in them, while asking the waiter to double the alcohol served to the other side. Chapman remained sober while the Bolton representatives got very drunk, and managed to haggle down the fee to a price he considered a bargain.[96] Jack's transfer to Arsenal was the second time Jack broke the world football transfer record, the first time being his £3,500 move from Plymouth Argyle to Bolton Wanderers in 1920.[97]  
  For consistency, fees in the record transfer tables below are all sourced from BBC Sport's contemporary reports of each transfer. Where the report mentions an initial fee potentially rising to a higher figure depending on contractual clauses being satisfied in the future, only the initial fee is listed in the tables.  
  The following Arsenal players and managers have been inducted into the English Hall of Fame.  
  The following Arsenal players and manager have been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame.  
  First full-time manager: Thomas Mitchell managed Arsenal from March 1897 to 1898.[133]  
  Longest-serving manager: Arsène Wenger – 21 years, 224 days (1 October 1996 to 13 May 2018)[134]  
  Shortest tenure as manager: Pat Rice – 2 weeks, 3 days (13 September 1996 to 30 September 1996)[135][136]  
  Highest win percentage: Pat Rice (caretaker), 75.00%[137]  
  First match: Eastern Wanderers 0–7 Royal Arsenal, friendly, 11 December 1886[139]  
  First FA Cup match: Royal Arsenal 11–0 Lyndhurst, first qualifying round, 5 October 1889[140]  
  First League Cup match: Arsenal 1–1 Gillingham, second round, 13 September 1966[141]  
  Record league win: 12–0 against Loughborough, Second Division, 12 March 1900[144]  
  Record FA Cup win: 12–0 against Ashford United, first qualifying round, 14 October 1893[144]  
  Record League Cup win: 7–0 against Leeds United, second round, 4 September 1979[144]  
  Record league defeat: 0–8 against Loughborough,[f] Second Division, 12 December 1896[144]  
  Record League Cup defeat: 0–5 against Chelsea, fourth round, 11 November 1998[144]  
  Arsenal hold several English football records, including the longest unbeaten sequence in the top flight, with 49. Arsenal scored in all 55 league matches from between 19 May 2001 to 30 November 2002 and the club also holds the longest unbeaten away sequence in league football with 27, from 5 April 2003 to 25 September 2004.[150]  
  Record consecutive wins: 14, from 12 September 1987 to 11 November 1987[149]  
  Record consecutive league wins: 14, from 10 February 2002 to 18 August 2002[145]  
  Record consecutive wins coming from behind: 4, from 11 February 2012 to 12 March 2012[151]  
  Record consecutive defeats: 8, from 12 February 1977 to 12 March 1977[149]  
  Record consecutive league defeats: 7, from 12 February 1977 to 12 March 1977[149]  
  Record consecutive draws: 6, from 3 March 1961 to 1 April 1961[149]  
  Record consecutive matches without a defeat: 28, from 9 April 2007 to 24 November 2007[149]  
  Record consecutive matches without a win: 19, from 28 September 1912 to 15 January 1913[152]  
  Record consecutive league matches without a win: 23, from 28 September 1912 to 1 March 1913[149]  
  Most league goals scored in a season: 127 in 42 matches, First Division, 1930–31[153]  
  Fewest league goals scored in a season: 26 in 38 matches, First Division, 1912–13[154]  
  Most league goals conceded in a season: 86 in 42 matches, First Division, 1926–27 and 1927–28[155]  
  Fewest league goals conceded in a season: 17 in 38 matches, Premier League, 1998–99[156]  
  This section applies to attendances at Highbury, where Arsenal played their home matches from 1913 to 2006, the Emirates Stadium, the club's present home, and Wembley Stadium, which acted as Arsenal's home in the UEFA Champions League during the 1998–99 and 1999–2000 seasons.[67] Arsenal's attendance figures since the move to the Emirates Stadium have been measured by tickets sold.[160]  
  Highest attendance at Highbury: 73,295, against Sunderland, First Division, 9 March 1935  
  Lowest attendance at Highbury: 4,554, against Leeds United, First Division, 5 May 1966  
  Highest attendance at the Emirates Stadium: 60,383 against Wolverhampton Wanderers, Premier League, 2 November 2019  
  Lowest attendance at the Emirates Stadium: 25,909, against BATE Borisov, UEFA Europa League group stage, 7 December 2017  
  Highest attendance Wembley Stadium: 73,707, against Lens, UEFA Champions League group stage, 25 November 1998  
  Lowest attendance at Wembley Stadium: 71,227, against AIK, UEFA Champions League group stage, 22 September 1999  
  On 17 January 1948, a league-record attendance of 83,260 watched Manchester United play Arsenal at Maine Road.[161] All of the top three attendances in league football occurred at Arsenal games.[161]  
  Arsenal have won two European honours: the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1970 and the Cup Winners' Cup in 1994. They also reached the final of the UEFA Cup in 2000 and the Europa League in 2019, and became the first London team to appear in a UEFA Champions League final in 2006.[162][163] Despite having never won the UEFA Champions League, Arsenal have set numerous records in the competition. Between the 1998–99 and 2016–17 seasons, they participated in nineteen successive editions, a record only surpassed in Europe by Real Madrid.[164] Goalkeeper Jens Lehmann kept ten consecutive clean sheets in the run-in to Arsenal's first UEFA Champions League final and the defence went 995 minutes until conceding a goal.[165] Arsenal were also the first British side to defeat Real Madrid and Borussia Dortmund away from home, and both Milanese teams: Internazionale and Milan at the San Siro. They were also the first British side to win away to Juventus.[166]  
  In August 1928, Arsenal, alongside Chelsea, made history by becoming the first football clubs to wear numbered shirts.[167] A year earlier the first ever live radio commentary of a football match took place, between Arsenal and Sheffield United.[168] Arsenal played in the first match broadcast live on television, against their reserve counterparts in 1937 and have since participated in the world's first live 3D and interactive football matches, both with Manchester United.[169][170][171]  
  ^ For a record of all matches participated in by Arsenal, see the AISA Arsenal History Society's line-ups database.[8] For corroboration, multiple other sources exist.[16][17][18][19][20][21][22][23]  
  ^ Although not organised by UEFA, it is considered to be a major honor by FIFA and UEFA took over the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup in 1971 and reformed it into the UEFA Cup. As the official precursor to the UEFA Europa League, it is included here under UEFA.  
  ^ The Sheriff of London Charity Shield was replaced by the FA Charity Shield (now FA Community Shield) in 1908. Although it is the official precursor to the FA Community Shield, it is not included here under The Football Association because Arsenal only won the fundraising matches that followed the Sheriff of London Charity Shield's 1931 revival.  
  ^ George Eastham was retrospectively awarded a medal for being a non-playing member of England's 1966 World Cup-winning side.[87]  
  ^ Unusually, Arsenal were forced to play two matches on the same day on 12 December 1896; while the first team took on Loughborough in the League, the reserves played Leyton in the FA Cup. The irony is that the reserves won handsomely, 5–0, whilst the seniors suffered Arsenal's record league defeat.[145][146] Additionally, Arsenal lost 0–9 to Chelsea in a wartime London Combination match on 21 April 1916,[147] but this is not counted as an official first-class match.[148]  
  Harris, Jeff (1995). Hogg, Tony (ed.). Arsenal Who's Who. London: Independent UK Sports. ISBN 1-899429-03-4.  
  Joy, Bernard (1952). Forward, Arsenal!. London: GCR Books Limited. ISBN 0-9559211-1-2.  
  McColl, Brian (2014). A Record of British Wartime Football. London: Lulu. ISBN 978-1-291-84089-6.  
  Peters, Paul (2014). Arsenal: The England Story. London: Lulu. ISBN 978-1-291-77255-5.  
  ^ Ross, James; Heneghan, Michael; Orford, Stuart; Culliton, Eoin (23 June 2016). "English Clubs Divisional Movements 1888–2016". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 5 August 2016. Retrieved 5 August 2016.  
  ^ "Double top Gunners". BBC Sport. 9 May 2002. Archived from the original on 23 April 2003. Retrieved 18 September 2015.  
  ^ "Honours". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 13 September 2015. Retrieved 18 September 2015.  
  ^ James, Josh (30 July 2013). "Cups of plenty". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 17 March 2016. Retrieved 11 April 2016.  
  ^ "Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Richard Rundle. Archived from the original on 6 November 2009. Retrieved 23 October 2009.  
  ^ Attwood, Tony (16 November 2013). "Arsenal in the London Challenge Cup". The History of Arsenal (AISA Arsenal History Society). Archived from the original on 7 March 2016. Retrieved 31 March 2016.  
  ^ Kungler, Peter (12 February 2003). "England 1941/42". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 5 March 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2016.  
  ^ Kungler, Peter (12 February 2003). "England 1942/43". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 5 March 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2016.  
  ^ Kungler, Peter (15 February 2003). "England 1939/40". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 5 March 2016. Retrieved 20 March 2016.  
  ^ "Honours and Achievements". Corinthian-Casuals Football Club. Archived from the original on 23 September 2015. Retrieved 2 September 2015.  
  ^ a b c d James, Josh. "Cups of plenty". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 17 March 2016. Retrieved 11 April 2016.  
  ^ Morrison, Neil; Courtney, Barrie (2 February 2005). "1990 matches". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 3 March 2016. Retrieved 31 March 2016.  
  ^ "Caltex Cup 1991". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). 30 June 1999. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 31 March 2016.  
  ^ Attwood, Tony (2 November 2010). "From Woolwich Arsenal to The Arsenal". The History of Arsenal (AISA Arsenal History Society). Archived from the original on 11 April 2016. Retrieved 31 March 2016.  
  ^ "Memorabilia Page". Leonard's Soccer Memorabilia Site. Archived from the original on 24 April 2013. Retrieved 31 March 2016.  
  ^ "Arsène Wenger". Arsenal F.C. Archived from the original on 18 March 2015. Retrieved 18 September 2015.  
  ^ Haylett, Trevor (14 September 1996). "Red faces as Houston walks out". The Independent. London. p. 28.  
  ^ May, John (15 April 2002). "Arsenal's FA Cup roots". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 6 November 2002. Retrieved 8 May 2010.  
  ^ a b c d e "Firsts". Arsenal F.C. 8 July 2008. Archived from the original on 5 September 2015. Retrieved 18 September 2015.  
  ^ James, Andrew & Kelly (2018). Arsenal: The Complete Record. p. 60.  
  ^ "Southern Division". Lincolnshire Echo. 22 April 1916. p. 4.  
  ^ McColl (2014), p. 8: "During the Great War, although the Football League officially abolished points for wins and draws, newspapers of the time continued to print tables and declare champions."  
  ^ "Arsenal first team line up". The Arsenal History. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 19 March 2013. Note: Information is in the section 1912–13.  
  ^ a b "Highbury – A history". Arsenal F.C. 14 July 2008. Archived from the original on 2 February 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2012.  
  ^ Dall, James (5 February 2008). "Wenger targets 90s". Sky Sports. Archived from the original on 21 October 2012. Retrieved 30 January 2012.  
  ^ Sanghera, Mandeep (16 September 2015). "Dinamo Zagreb 2–1 Arsenal". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 19 September 2015. Retrieved 13 October 2015.  
  Clubs are grouped by their division in the 2022–23 season. • ‡ club based in Wales that competes in English leagues.  
  List of Arsenal F.C. seasons  
  Arsenal Football Club is an English professional association football club based in Holloway, London. The club was formed in Woolwich in 1886 as Dial Square before it was shortly renamed to Royal Arsenal, and then Woolwich Arsenal in 1893.[1] They became the first southern member[a] admitted into the Football League in 1893, having spent their first four seasons solely participating in cup tournaments and friendlies.[4] The club's name was shortened to Arsenal in 1914, a year after moving to Highbury.[5] In spite of finishing fifth in the Second Division in 1915, Arsenal rejoined the First Division at the expense of local rivals Tottenham Hotspur when football resumed after the First World War.[6] Since that time, they have not fallen below the first tier of the English football league system and hold the record for the longest uninterrupted time in the top flight.[7]  
  In the 1930s, Arsenal were the dominant side of England, winning five league championships and two FA Cups. Their fortunes waned, but the club soon enjoyed infrequent periods of success, including Inter-Cities Fairs Cup triumph and a first league and cup double in the 1970s. During the late 1980s, Arsenal had built a side that threatened Liverpool's league dominance, and performed greatly in cup competitions. The club played an active role in the formation of the Premier League in 1992, won the FA Cup in 1993 and the European Cup Winners Cup in 1994 and two doubles followed in 1998 and 2002. Arsenal made league history in 2003–04 when they became the first team in a 38-game season to go unbeaten.[8] In the 2000s, Arsenal were finalists in both the UEFA Cup and UEFA Champions League,[9] and have since equalled Real Madrid's record for most consecutive seasons in the latter competition.[10]  
  As of the end of the 2022–23 season, the club's first team have spent 106 seasons in the top division of English football, and 13 in the second. Their worst league finish to date is 10th in the second tier, their placing at the end of the 1896–97 season. Arsenal's best-ever start to a Premier League season came in 2022–23, when they won 9 of their first 10 matches.[11] The club's longest period without a competitive honour is 17 years, between the 1953-54 and 1969–70 seasons. Ted Drake holds the record for most competitive goals in a single season for Arsenal; he scored 44 during the 1934–35 campaign. The table details the club's achievements in major competitions, and the top scorers for each season. Records of competitions such as the London Combination and the London War Cup are not included.  
  When Arsenal was founded in 1886 by munition workers' from Woolwich, the club resisted the lure of professionalism and remained an amateur side.[12] Success in local cup competitions soon followed, and a tie against Derby County in the FA Cup on 17 January 1891 led to the opposition approaching two of Arsenal's players, in view of offering them professional contracts.[12] Later that year the club resigned its membership of the Kent County and London Football Associations – both amateur governing bodies – and voted to turn professional, a move which attracted criticism from many southern clubs.[12][b] In 1893, the club received an invitation to join the Football League, which the board accepted.[12] Arsenal played in the Second Division for eleven seasons, while also participating in regional competitions, the Southern Combination and United League.[14] The club won promotion in 1904, and enjoyed strong FA Cup campaigns in the mid-1900s, but the increase of football clubs in the capital and falling attendances at the Manor Ground pushed Arsenal close to bankruptcy by 1910.[15] Sir Henry Norris and William Hall in that year took over Arsenal, and planned to relocate the team to Highbury in order to improve their financial standing.[15] Arsenal were relegated back to the Second Division in 1913, but the move to North London brought about larger attendances than ever before.[16]  
  In 1919, Norris arranged for the club's promotion back to the First Division, in contentious circumstances.[18] With increased financial resources, the club established themselves as a permanent fixture in the division and was better able to spend money on new players.[19] In 1930, Arsenal beat Huddersfield Town to win its first major piece of silverware: the FA Cup.[20] Success continued right throughout the decade,[21] as they won five league championships and a further FA Cup in seven years.[22] Following the Second World War, Arsenal won two more championships and a FA Cup, but their fortunes gradually declined.[23] It was not until 1970 that the club won another trophy – the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup,[24] a European club competition designed to promote trade fairs.[25] A first league and cup double was completed a year later; by the end of the decade Arsenal added another FA Cup, beating Manchester United in the 1979 final.[26][27] 1980 saw Arsenal lose two finals in quick succession, defeated by West Ham United in the FA Cup final and then to Valencia in the Cup Winners' Cup on penalties.[28] The club won their first League Cup in 1987, but a year later failed to retain the trophy as outsiders Luton Town beat them in the final.[29] In 1989, Arsenal won their first league championship in 18 years, courtesy of Michael Thomas' last-minute goal against closest challengers Liverpool in the final game of the season.[30] The club did not build on their success, finishing fourth the following season, but regained the title in 1991.[31][32] As champions, Arsenal were eligible to play in the European Cup,[c] but their time in the competition ended abruptly as they were eliminated in the second round by Benfica.[35]  
  The growth of commercialism in English football during the late 1980s and early 1990s paved the way for Arsenal and other prominent clubs to seek the possibility of setting up a new top-flight division.[36] Unhappy with how income was distributed to the lower leagues and wanting to exploit television rights, Arsenal and 21 other First Division clubs handed a notice of resignation from the Football League by August 1991.[37] The breakaway division, entitled the Premier League, was administered by The Football Association and received financial backing from Sky Television.[38][39] Arsenal finished 10th in the inaugural season;[40] the club did well in other competitions, winning a unique FA and League Cup double.[41] They were victorious in the 1994 Cup Winners' Cup Final,[42] and came close to defending the trophy in 1995, before losing to Real Zaragoza.[43]  
  Arsenal added more league and cup doubles in 1998 and 2002,[44] and in 2004 became the first club in Premier League history to win the title without a single defeat.[45] The side, nicknamed "The Invincibles" remained unbeaten for 49 games, before losing to Manchester United in October 2004.[46] In 2006, Arsenal reached their first UEFA Champions League final but Barcelona scored twice in the second half to win the competition.[47] Later that year, Arsenal moved to the Emirates Stadium which commenced a transitional period.[48] Though the club strengthened their position in the league's "top four" and frequently participated in the Champions League, they struggled to hold on to their best players.[49] In 2011–12, Arsenal made their worst start to a season for 58 years,[50] but a strong finish saw the club overtake rivals Tottenham Hotspur to third position.[51] After nine years without silverware, the club beat Hull City to win the 2014 FA Cup Final and retained the trophy with a dominant display against Aston Villa in 2015,[52][53] before clinching a record 13th in 2017. Arsenal won their fourteenth FA Cup in 2020, beating Chelsea.[54]  
  Premier League (Prem) – England's top football league, established in 1992  
  Football League First Division (Div 1) – The first tier of English football until the inception of the Premier League in 1992. It was downgraded to the second tier, but remained the highest division of the English Football League until 2004.  
  Football League Second Division (Div 2) – The second tier of English football from its inception until 1992. It was downgraded to third-highest once the Premier League commenced and remained so until 2004.  
  ^ A club located in the southern counties of England. Initially these were amateur clubs, as professionalism in football was not as readily accepted in the south as in the north. In the 1893–94 season, Arsenal (under its former name Woolwich Arsenal) turned professional and became the first southern club admitted to the northern-oriented Football League. The following year saw the creation of the Southern Football League, which was composed of amateur and professional teams. By the 1920–21 season, the top division of the Southern Football League was absorbed by the Football League, to create its third division.[2][3]  
  ^ Contrary to what was stated at the time, clubs from Southern England did not boycott Arsenal following their move to professional football, nor were the club expelled from the London or Kent FA.[13]  
  ^ Despite their status as champions in 1989, Arsenal were barred from participating in the 1989–90 European Cup as UEFA's ban on English teams from playing in European club competitions was in effect.[33] The embargo which began in 1985 as a consequence of Liverpool's role in the Heysel tragedy, was not lifted until April 1990.[34]  
  ^ The expansion of the FA Cup, from 15 clubs in its inaugural season to currently more than 700 has meant successive changes in the competition's structure. Teams in the top two divisions were made exempt from the qualifying stages and the first two rounds of the Cup in 1925–26. Because of this rounds were renamed; the fifth and sixth qualifying rounds became first and second round proper. Since 1914–15 there have been a total of 14 rounds, in comparison to five in 1871–72.  
  ^ Other competitions refer to the London Senior Cup, Kent Senior Cup, London Challenge Cup, London Charity Cup and the Football League Centenary Trophy. London Challenge Cup results are sourced to Kelly's first team line-ups (until the 1929–30 season) and Ollier (1995) thereafter. All other results, including the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup which was not administered by UEFA, are sourced to Kelly.  
  ^ The club was a founding member of the United League in 1896. The league lasted for three seasons before it disbanded.[60]  
  ^ Although they had finished outside the automatic promotion places in 1914–15, Arsenal were re-elected to the First Division after it expanded in 1919.[62] According to Bernard Joy, Arsenal secured eighteen votes to Tottenham Hotspur's eight.[6] However it has been alleged that Arsenal's promotion, on historical grounds rather than merit, was thanks to underhand actions by Norris, who was chairman of the club at the time; see History of Arsenal F.C. (1886–1966) for further details. These allegations range from political machinations to outright bribery; no firm proof of any wrongdoing has ever been found.  
  ^ Arsenal were originally awarded sixth place due to an error calculating goal average, which was not corrected until 1975.[63]  
  ^ No competitive football was played between 1915 and 1919 due to the First World War. Arsenal competed in the London Combination from 1915–16 to 1918–19.[64][65]  
  ^ In September 1939 first-class football was suspended due to the Second World War, with the 1939–40 league table voided and regional competitions contested instead.[66]  
  ^ The FA Cup resumed in 1945, but league football remained regionally structured until the start of the 1946–47 season.[67]  
  ^ For the first six seasons of the Football League Cup, Arsenal declined to take part as its board preferred the London-centric Floodlit Cup (which became defunct once the new competition was introduced), and were against the League Cup acting as "an interim step towards league re-organisation."[69] Arsenal eventually joined in the 1966–67 season for reasons unspecified; by the 1971–72 season it became mandatory for all Football League clubs to participate.[70]  
  ^ Arsenal did not participate in the 1971 FA Charity Shield due to a previously arranged pre-season tour that clashed with the event.[71] Leicester City were invited to take part, and beat Cup runners-up Liverpool.[72]  
  ^ Ian Wright scored 29 goals in the First Division, five of which for Crystal Palace before his move to Arsenal in September 1991.[75]  
  ^ Arsenal originally entered the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League, but only came third in the group stage and were knocked out; however, they were granted a consolatory place in the UEFA Cup under the rules of the tournament at the time.[76]  
  ^ Thierry Henry was the division's top goalscorer with 30 goals, winning the European Golden Shoe in the process.[77]  
  ^ Joint holder of the European Golden Shoe with Diego Forlán, both of whom scored 25 goals.[78]  
  Dobson, Stephen; Goddard, Jeff (2001). The Economics of Football. London: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-51714-1.  
  Harris, Jeff; Hogg, Tony (1995). Arsenal Who's Who. London: Independent UK Sports. ISBN 1-899429-03-4.  
  Joy, Bernard (1952). Forward, Arsenal!. London: GCR Books Limited. ISBN 0-9559211-1-2.  
  King, Anthony (2002). The end of the terraces: the transformation of English football in the 1990s. London: Continuum International Publishing Group. ISBN 0-7185-0259-0.  
  Ollier, Fred (1995). Arsenal: A Complete Record. London: Breedon Books. ISBN 1-85983-011-0.  
  Palmer, Myles (2007). The Professor: Arsène Wenger. London: Virgin Books. ISBN 978-0-7535-1097-1.  
  Rundle, Richard. "Arsenal". Football Club History Database. Retrieved 27 February 2006.  
  Soar, Phil; Tyler, Martin (2005). The Official Illustrated History of Arsenal. London: Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61344-5.  
  Soar, Phil; Tyler, Martin (2011). Arsenal 125 Years in the Making: The Official Illustrated History 1886–2011. Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-62353-3.  
  ^ "The managers". Arsenal F.C. 30 June 2008. Archived from the original on 7 September 2008. Retrieved 31 July 2016.  
  ^ Ball, Peter (20 April 1990). "Liverpool receive lift for Europe return". The Times. p. 44.  
  ^ Jones, Stuart (7 November 1991). "Arsenal outclassed in extra time". The Times. p. 40.  
  ^ Ball, Peter (17 August 1991). "First division clubs pull out of the Football League". The Times. p. 1.  
  ^ Langford, Adrian; Hunt, Richard (14 December 1992). "How Sky scored an own goal". The Guardian. London. p. A13.  
  ^ "Double top Gunners". BBC Sport. 9 July 2002. Archived from the original on 23 April 2003. Retrieved 24 July 2016.  
  ^ Fynn, Alex; Whitcher, Kevin (31 August 2008). "Young guns". The Observer. London. Archived from the original on 2 August 2017. Retrieved 3 January 2016.  
  ^ McNulty, Phil (1 August 2020). "Arsenal 2–1 Chelsea". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020. Retrieved 1 August 2020.  
  ^ Ross, James M.; Ross (9 June 2016). "English League Leading Goalscorers". Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 28 June 2011. Retrieved 2 October 2016.  
  ^ "The FA Cup Past Results". The Football Association. Archived from the original on 2 February 2012. Retrieved 2 September 2016. Individual seasons accessed via dropdown menu.  
  ^ a b All results are sourced to Kelly's first team line-ups.  
  ^ For Arsenal results and final league tables in the Football League, Premier League, United League, Southern District Combination, London League Premier Division, and the abandoned 1939–40 season please refer to Kelly's first team line-ups website, listed in the general section.  
  ^ "Arsenal". UEFA. 2 September 2016. Archived from the original on 7 June 2019. Retrieved 2 September 2016.  
  ^ "Arsenal at War". Arsenal F.C. 16 December 2008. Archived from the original on 7 February 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2011.  
  ^ "FA in search of substitute". The Times. 25 May 1971. p. 8.  
  ^ Moore, Brian (9 August 1971). "Leicester's win suggests season of achievement". The Times. p. 8.  
  ^ Taylor, Louise (23 October 1990). "FA charges clubs after the brawl at Old Trafford". The Times. p. 48.  
  ^ Silver, Neil (17 March 1996). "I'm all Wright". Sunday Mirror. London. Archived from the original on 18 August 2016. Retrieved 15 November 2011. He had scored 29 goals in total, 24 of them counting for Arsenal after his move from Crystal Palace.  
  Every Premier League club’s season graded early – Arsenal’s title push to Liverpool’s Klopp send-off  
  Seven other top-flight matches are being played on Saturday before a big day on Sunday when the title fight gets going again: Liverpool host Brighton, and Manchester City and Arsenal go head to head at the Etihad.  
  Advertisement  
  Most teams have nine or 10 games left to avoid the drop, seal a European spot or make a decisive blow in the title fight, but how has every club got on this season?  
  Here The Athletic writers give their early grades — and outline what is left to play for.  
  Arsenal  
  Grade: A  
  The only reason it is not A+ is that Arsenal were dumped out of both cup competitions early but, in truth, only two competitions really mattered this season and they are in contention for both.  
  After the traumatic end to last season, being in the title race at this stage, never mind leading it, would have been a solid follow-up to the surprise of last season’s charge.  
  After a slow first few months, their football has gradually become more fluid and they have cancelled out the defensive shakiness that plagued them last season. They have also found a way to get the best out of their two expensive summer purchases, which is never easy.  
  The small matter of recording the best season in the club’s history.  
  Twenty years on from the Invincibles, Arsenal need to show their steel down the home run to prove that this team can get over the line.  
  But Mikel Arteta has spoken passionately about wanting to create a European legacy. Come through the tie against Bayern Munich and they could be on course to end two long trophy droughts.  
  Aston Villa are fourth. A great position, made better by the continued adversity Unai Emery’s side has faced. Three anterior cruciate ligament injuries, recurring setbacks to key players leading to a depleted squad and the ability to combine playing in Europe for the first time in 13 years with Premier League ambitions.  
  Villa are the one team threatening to break the top-six monopoly and go one better by reaching the Champions League. A remarkable season.  
  Qualification for the Champions League, breaking Premier League records under Emery, Ollie Watkins winning the Golden Boot and Villa winning the UEFA Conference League, having reached the last eight in the competition. So, to curtly answer the question, almost everything.  
  Watkins has scored 16 league goals this season (Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images)  
  Their season under new manager Andoni Iraola got going eventually. It took a bit of time for his style of play to kick in. A 2-0 win over Newcastle United in November felt like the realisation of his footballing ideologies. That kicked off a period of seven games unbeaten and was fundamental in Bournemouth keeping themselves out of any relegation scrap.  
  They are in 13th, 14 points off Nottingham Forest who are in the drop zone. They are playing Iraola’s way with a young, fun team who still have room to improve.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  Alongside mathematical survival, can they dream of a sneaky top-half finish? Why not? They are five points off Newcastle in 10th and have 10 games left. Any push for a top-10 finish will be defined by how they handle upcoming clashes against three teams below them; Everton, Crystal Palace and Luton Town.  
  After finishing ninth in the Premier League last year, Brentford were confident of achieving another top-half finish. They signed Nathan Collins from Wolves for a club-record fee of £23million and identified Mark Flekken as David Raya’s replacement.  
  After a mixed start, injuries to key players — including first-choice full-backs Rico Henry and Aaron Hickey — began to take their toll. They have lost seven of their last 10 fixtures and are only five points above the relegation zone. Ivan Toney’s return from an eight-month ban has been a boost, but Thomas Frank’s side are in danger of returning to the Championship.  
  Advertisement  
  What’s left to play for?  
  The only focus for Brentford now is avoiding relegation. Last weekend’s 2-1 defeat to Burnley stung and their next three games are against Manchester United, Brighton and Aston Villa. Frank needs to unite the squad and hope players return to full fitness quickly to navigate their way out of this mess.  
  Toney’s return has been timely but Brentford remain in trouble (Naomi Baker/Getty Images)  
  Jay Harris  
  Brighton  
  Grade: B+  
  This was always going to be a challenging season for Brighton, coping with competing in Europe for the first time.  
  Roberto De Zerbi has also been perpetually undermined by injuries which have robbed him of key players.  
  They did well to top their group in the Europa League, recovering from one point from the first two matches to finish above Marseille, Ajax and AEK Athens.  
  Exits from the last 16 of both the FA Cup and in the Europe League, within a fortnight of each other, were major disappointments, though.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  Never lower than 10th in the table and currently in eighth position, De Zerbi’s side remain in the thick of a fight to clinch European qualification for the second season.  
  Without points deductions, Burnley would all but mathematically be relegated. However, in the season of the asterisk, they still have a chance entering the final stretch.  
  It has been a miserable season with their fourth league win only coming this month against Brentford. The feel-good factor and momentum built up from last season were extinguished quickly and it has been a massive struggle. After a summer of spending £90million to try and make their squad competitive, not enough players have stepped up.  
  It is a squad packed with youth and inexperience so survival was always going to be a huge task, but player development and the long-term plan cannot disguise this season from what it has been.  
  Advertisement  
  What’s left to play for?  
  Somehow, someway, a great escape is still possible. They are five points from safety with nine games to go. It still feels improbable but improved performances against Bournemouth and West Ham eventually led to three points against Brentford. There is now a sense of belief.  
  Andrew Jones  
  Chelsea  
  Grade: D  
  In many ways, it has been a case of: progress, what progress? Chelsea finished 12th last season and with 11 games remaining, they are just one place higher.  
  They are in danger of conceding the most Premier League goals in the club’s history. They have let in 45, just 10 fewer than their ‘worst’ tally of 55 (1994-95, 1996-97).  
  Palmer, right, has been one of few bright points for Pochettino and Chelsea (Darren Walsh/Chelsea FC via Getty Images)  
  Reaching the Carabao Cup final and another FA Cup semi-final has at least provided more excitement than last season, although the draws have been kind to them. Cole Palmer’s brilliance has too.  
  But the mood among the fanbase is getting increasingly tense, with the owners, head coach Mauricio Pochettino and highest earner Raheem Sterling all on the receiving end of negative chanting and abuse.  
  There is still a chance for the grade to improve, starting with lifting the FA Cup. It is going to be difficult as they face holders Manchester City in the semi-final and probably Manchester United in the final. A strong end to the Premier League season could still see them qualify for Europe, but expectations they can put the good run required to do so are not high.  
  Simon Johnson  
  Crystal Palace  
  Grade: C-  
  There have not been too many standout moments for Crystal Palace this season, but 14th in the table is par for the south London side, especially in a season that was always going to be focused on maintaining stability.  
  Roy Hodgson’s slightly uncomfortable but very much necessary departure encapsulated an awkward and frustrating season for Palace.  
  Advertisement  
  Occasional sparkles of joy — which mainly came during seven games Eberechi Eze and Michael Olise have been fit enough to start together — have been dampened by a relentless injury crisis affecting key players, notably midfield lynchpin Cheick Doucoure.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  With a particularly weak promoted trio and points deductions creating even more of a cushion, Palace won’t be looking over their shoulder during the run-in. Instead, focus will be on new manager Oliver Glasner trying to evolve the style of play into something more palatable for fans next season.  
  Everton  
  Grade: C  
  Everton’s performances have been far better than the previous two seasons, with Sean Dyche’s team boasting one of the league’s best defences and with improved underlying attacking numbers. The problem, however, has been taking those chances.  
  Everton have underperformed in attack more than any other team in the league — and have endured an 11-game winless run as a result.  
  Everton haven’t won a league game in 2024 (Paul Ellis/AFP via Getty Images  
  Staying in the Premier League. This is not the fault of Dyche’s staff, with Everton handed a six-point deduction (initially 10) for breaking profit and sustainability rules (PSR). However, with the club set to learn their punishment for a further breach in the coming weeks, and currently just four points clear of the relegation zone, their poor finishing means they are in another battle.  
  Context is key to viewing this season. Aleksandar Mitrovic’s departure was unexpected and he was not replaced. Amid speculation about manager Marco Silva’s own future, and Joao Palhinha going so close to a departure, expectations had dropped.  
  But Fulham could still match last year’s achievements. They are well clear of the drop zone, and have picked up eye-catching results; victories over Arsenal and Tottenham, as well as a first win at Old Trafford for 21 years. And there was also a first League Cup semi-final, which was narrowly lost to eventual winners Liverpool.  
  Fulham have been inconsistent but at their best, they are an entertaining team. Despite losing Mitrovic, Fulham have adjusted and have steered well clear of any second-season syndrome. Silva’s work has been impressive.  
  Could Fulham really push for a top-eight finish, and maybe Europe? It’s a long shot, as they are four points adrift and have played more games than those above them. A realistic target may be to better last season’s finish. In 2022-23, they won more games than ever before in the Premier League (15) and were just one point shy (52) of their record points total (53). With nine games to play, Fulham need four more wins and 15 more points to improve on last year’s showing.  
  Peter Rutzler  
  Liverpool  
  Grade: A  
  Rewind to August and Liverpool’s main target for the season was simply to regain their Champions League status.  
  It had been a turbulent summer. They missed out on Moises Caicedo and Romeo Lavia, who both opted to join Chelsea. There were fears about the potential impact of losing so much experience with the exits of captain Jordan Henderson and vice-captain James Milner.  
  Harvey Elliott has stepped up this season (Peter Byrne/PA Images via Getty Images)  
  However, those concerns were quickly dispelled as new leaders emerged, new signings proved their worth and an array of academy graduates flourished.  
  Plenty. With 10 games to go, Liverpool find themselves behind Premier League leaders Arsenal on goal difference with Manchester City a point adrift. It’s a thrilling three-horse race for glory as Liverpool try to ensure Klopp gets the dream farewell.  
  There’s also the small matter of trying to win the Europa League — the only major honour to have eluded Klopp. If Liverpool get past Atalanta in the last eight and then either Benfica or Marseille in the semis, the stage is set for a likely final showdown with Xabi Alonso’s Bayer Leverkusen in Dublin on May 22.  
  James Pearce  
  Luton  
  Grade: A  
  Luton have far exceeded everyone’s expectations. Coming into this season after their miracle promotion to the Premier League under Rob Edwards, many feared the worst. For Luton to have 22 points after 29 games is remarkable. And not only that, but they have been playing vibrant and fluid football.  
  They have been one of the best teams to watch, not just for their joyous energy but also for the drama. They never know when they are beaten. On their shoestring budget, to be even here in the first place is incredible but they are real contenders to avoid relegation.  
  Survival. Luton have nine games to stay exactly where they are right now: one point above the relegation zone. What is slightly problematic is in three of their next four games they face Tottenham, Arsenal and Manchester City away from home. Crucially, they do have four home games remaining against Bournemouth, Brentford, Everton and Fulham. If we didn’t already know it, the power of Kenilworth Road is quite something. If Luton are to remain in the Premier League, that place and those fans will be integral to it.  
  Caoimhe O’Neill  
  Manchester City  
  Grade: A  
  When Manchester City are at their very best they are A* (or A** really), and that is the level they are still striving for this season.  
  They have flaws but they are still at an extremely high level — to be going into April with the hope of winning the treble, a year after actually winning it, shows just how good they still are even if they have not reached the very top level.  
  In terms of those flaws, they are a bit more open on the counter-attack and a bit weaker defensively. That might explain why they have only beaten Manchester United out of the ‘Big Six’ this season. But being one point off the top of the league, things are obviously not too bad.  
  Everything! The FA Cup semi-final against Chelsea comes soon after the Champions League quarter-final second leg against Real Madrid. In the league, they have Arsenal on Sunday. So, a big month in April. And if they do well: another big month in May.  
  Sam Lee  
  Manchester United  
  Grade: C-  
  One of the most expensive squads in world football is sixth in the Premier League and out of Europe. There have been 21 wins and 16 defeats. 65 goals scored, 62 conceded. In the league alone, the goal difference is a flat, round zero.  
  It’s impossible to give United anything above a middling grade. Given their size, stature and spending, they should arguably be marked down further. But this season has been as eventful off the pitch as on it and has not been without positives. That epic FA Cup quarter-final against Liverpool, for starters.  
  The win against Liverpool, on a weekend when Aston Villa and Tottenham dropped points and after a good week for England’s coefficient, changed the complexion of the run-in. Winning a trophy and qualifying for the Champions League — by finishing fifth, if needs be — would have to be considered making the best out of a difficult year.  
  Mark Critchley  
  Newcastle United  
  Grade: C  
  Maaaaannnn, this is difficult. On the one hand, this has been a season crammed with extraordinary moments; a ground-shaking 4-1 victory over Paris Saint-Germain, wins over both Manchester clubs in the Carabao Cup, a 5-1 win against Aston Villa, beating Sunderland for the first time in forever and a few more besides. Compared to their recent past, reaching two domestic cup quarter-finals is a miracle.  
  The problem is the other hand; compared to last season, a Wembley final, fourth place in the Premier League and a team that harried and pressed every week, this long stretch of sapping injuries, tired performances and waning identity feels bloody awful. Newcastle are 10th, have had two difficult transfer windows and are losing Dan Ashworth, their sporting director, to Manchester United.  
  Europe. Recover in the league and put on a spurt and, given the circumstances, a C could become a B. It could also become a D or worse. Newcastle desperately need some forward momentum and aim to make Europe their natural home.  
  George Caulkin  
  Nottingham Forest  
  Grade: D  
  This is difficult to judge because Forest’s position in the bottom three is, at least in a small way, influenced by events either off the pitch or out of their control. As well as the four-point deduction for breaching PSR, there have been injuries, players missing while at the Africa Cup of Nations and a string of refereeing decisions that have bordered on the farcical.  
  Realistically, the goal this season was always to survive. Though their struggles have not all been of their own making, some of them have. Such as conceding 19 goals from set pieces.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  Forest’s only goal should be to better Luton’s results — and those of Burnley, Sheffield United and the other teams around them — in the remaining games.  
  Paul Taylor  
  Sheffield United  
  Grade: F  
  It’s been a shocking season. Three wins in 28 games, 74 goals conceded, 20 defeats, an 8-0 home thrashing… need we go on?  
  What makes the last eight months all the more painful is it was wholly predictable. Selling your best two players just before a new season starts rarely ends well. Leaving it late to then sign any replacements, effectively writing off the first three games, just compounded the problem.  
  Pride. Three wins in the final six games of the 2020-21 season ensured another United side out of its depth at the top level didn’t join Derby County, Sunderland, Huddersfield et al on the list of all-time worst Premier League teams. A similar upturn is needed now.  
  Richard Sutcliffe  
  Tottenham  
  Grade: A-  
  Given the consensus at the start of the season was that qualifying for Europe would be a decent outcome, the fact Spurs can go fourth if they win their game in hand means they have exceeded expectations.  
  Throw in the fact they sold the best player in their modern history the day before the season started and what they’ve done has been even more impressive. Especially as they’ve done it playing such exciting football, and with players visibly improved under Ange Postecoglou.  
  Postecoglou has had a solid first season at Spurs (James Gill – Danehouse/Getty Images)  
  What’s left to play for?  
  Champions League qualification is very much within reach, especially as fifth place could end up being enough.  
  Postecoglou would also say that more important than where they finish is the opportunity the final 10 games of the campaign provides for his team to grow, learn and improve ahead of next season.  
  Advertisement  
  The early cup exits have been the biggest disappointment, though one of those was to Manchester City.  
  Charlie Eccleshare  
  West Ham  
  Grade: B  
  If you ignore the conjecture surrounding David Moyes’ future, West Ham United are seventh and in the quarter-final of a European competition for a third season in a row. Even if Moyes’ side were to lose against Bundesliga leaders Bayer Leverkusen, they still have a chance of qualifying for Europe next season via the league.  
  Then you factor the performances of Jarrod Bowen, Lucas Paqueta, Mohammed Kudus, Alphonse Areola, Vladimir Coufal, Emerson Palmieri and Edson Alvarez. There are numerous contenders for player of the year. It is hard to recall a season when this has been the case. The disappointment of losing to Bristol City and Liverpool in cup competitions still lingers. But all things considered, it has been a good season.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  They could win the Europa League. Leverkusen only narrowly beat Qarabag to advance to the quarter-finals, which will give Moyes’ side plenty of confidence. If this ends up being Moyes’ last season, the players will intend to end it on a high.  
  It feels like a harsh grading given the feeling of positivity that Gary O’Neil has brought back to Molineux. It would have been an A had Wolves not been careless in giving away two opportunities in cup competitions, first in the EFL Cup at Ipswich and then, much more heartbreakingly, last weekend in the FA Cup defeat to Coventry.  
  And it would have been an A* had they found better solutions to breaking down low-block Premier League teams at home.  
  But they are really the only two areas where O’Neil and his side can be faulted this season.  
  What’s left to play for?  
  A place in Europe is still possible through a seventh or eighth-place league finish. It is a tall order, given the mounting injury issues at Wolves, but this team have risen to challenges repeatedly.  
  Steve Madeley  
  (Top photos: Getty Images)  
  Get all-access to exclusive stories.  
  Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us.  
  The Arsenal Crest  
  26 May 2017 Share  
  The club’s first crest (1) initially appeared on 20 October, 1905, when the “Book of Football” published an article on Woolwich Arsenal football club written by the club's vice-chairman Arthur Kennedy, with the crest proudly accompanying the article.  
  It is universally acknowledged to be based upon the Woolwich Borough coat of arms (2), but adds the laurel leaves and has the wording expanded in ribbons to make it look slightly grander than the original. It has the same three cannons with lions' heads and the exact same Latin motto: ‘CLAMANT NOSTRA TELA IN REGIS QUERELA’ meaning “Our weapons clash in the King’s quarrel”.  
  The Woolwich municipal crest was designed in 1901 to coincide with the town becoming the Metropolitan Borough of Woolwich – a part of the recently constituted London County Council. Woolwich had been moved from Kent in 1889 hence the need for a re-branding of the civic image, and this highlights the civic pride that Arsenal Football Club felt in their military dominated borough.  
  The cannons on the original crest were obviously a reference to the military influence in Woolwich and despite the club’s ties with the area being cut 89 years ago, the cannon theme has developed throughout the years and has remained prominent on the Gunners different crests down the years, including the new design. In the early days the crest was not as significant a part of a football club’s identity as it is today. Shirts remained plain, unless commemorating a significant match, an FA Cup Final for example, and the crest was generally reserved for official headed stationery, matchday programmes and handbooks.  
  Following Arsenal’s move north to Highbury in 1913, it wasn’t immediately apparent that the club would embrace the Woolwich Arsenal legacy and keep the cannon as a recognisable motif. The club soon became just ‘Arsenal’, the Great War affected football for four seasons and recommencing in 1919/20 peacetime football took some time to settle. During all of this period there was no sign of a crest. But by the 1921/22 season, the club’s letterheads were resplendent with a newly designed westward pointing single cannon (3).  
  This was the first time a horizontal cannon had appeared at Arsenal and it pointed to the west, yet it was all change in the first matchday programme of the 1922/23 season, when the Gunners played Burnley, as another club crest (4) was revealed – a fearsome looking cannon – that would have sat proudly in the Royal Arsenal of Woolwich. As can be seen the cannon had switched direction and this design featured an eastward pointing cannon. Whoever designed this robust looking weapon saw his handiwork used by the club for just three seasons as at the start of the 1925/26 season the Gunners changed back to a westward pointing cannon, very similar to the earlier 1921/22 narrower one (5), with the legend ‘The Gunners’ remaining next to it.  
  The derivation of the narrower cannon has never been officially confirmed, but the cannons on the crest of the Royal Arsenal Gatehouse in Woolwich (6) are uncannily similar to that used as the Gunners’ symbol. This cannon crest remained prominent in the Arsenal matchday programme and other publications for 17 seasons. It changed slightly through the years with the wording eventually disappearing, but, despite being usurped by the Victoria Concordia Crescit crest in 1949 it has remained a basic symbol of the club ever since, featuring on official merchandise and stationary throughout the years right up until the present day.  
  The VCC crest (7), which the current crest replaced, had been Arsenal’s symbol since appearing in the first programme of season 1949/50. It would appear to have been in the minds of the Gunners hierarchy for at least a year prior to this. In the final matchday programme of the 1947/48 League Championship winning season, ‘Marksman’ (aka Harry Homer), the programme editor of the day, wrote: “...my mind seeks an apt quotation with which to close this season which has been such a glorious one for Tom Whittaker, Joe Mercer and all connected with The Gunners. Shall we turn for once to Latin? ‘Victoria Concordia Crescit’. Translation: ‘Victory grows out of harmony.’”  
  Two seasons later and Arsenal unveiled its new crest which incorporated Marksman’s Latin maxim. Tom Whittaker explained in the 1949/50 handbook (which also included the new crest) that the club had been impressed by Marksman’s motto and it had now been officially adopted by the club. The new crest also featured ‘Arsenal’ in a gothic style typeface, the westward facing cannon, the Borough of Islington’s coat of arms and ermine.  
  For the next 53 years this crest remained largely unchanged (8), though at the start of the 2001/02 season it was ‘cleaned up’ somewhat (9) for commercial reasons, with a solid yellow replacing the different tones of gold and Victoria Concordia Crescit written in a less ornate typeface.  
  The club’s identity has thus evolved over the years and the decision to formulate a new crest (10) in 2002 was taken to embrace the future and move forward. With Emirates Stadium on the horizon and the Gunners consistently challenging for domestic and European honours, the club believed it was the ideal time to introduce a new crest.  
  The shirt for the 2011/12 season featured a special 125th anniversary crest design (11) combining the graphic of the first club crest with the current version.  
  The celebratory design features 15 laurel leaves to the left side of the club's crest to reflect the detail on the reverse of the six pence pieces paid by 15 men to establish the club - the laurel leaves also represent strength.  
  The 15 oak leaves to the right of the crest acknowledge the founders who would meet in the local Royal Oak pub. Underneath the crest is one of the first recorded mottos related to the armament and battle - 'Forward' - with the anniversary dates of 1886 and 2011 either side of the heart of the shirt.  
  THE ART DECO CREST  
  It was inlaid into the floor of the 'Marble Halls', it sat proudly over Highbury's main entrance on Avenell Road and was even forged onto the heavy steel doors themselves.  
  The hexagonal Art Deco "A-football-C" symbol has been synonymous with Arsenal Football club since the 1930's and still appears today on scarves, badges and mugs in the club shop; but what do we know about the history and design of this stylish Art Deco symbol?  
  Britain's leading authority on football stadia and author of 'Football Grounds of England and Wales', Simon Inglis, explains further...  
  "When Herbert Chapman took over the club in 1925 it took him a little while to appreciate what the possibilities of a club in central London were.  
  "One of the first things Chapman and Claude Waterlow Ferrier [the architect of Highbury's East and West stands] did was to "rebrand" the club.  
  "They created the symbol with the 'A' (standing for 'Arsenal'), the ball ('Football') and the 'C' ('Club'), which is in itself a fantastic piece of corporate branding.  
  "You look all around Highbury and you see examples of that. Taking football from the Victorian era into the 20th century. This is what Highbury embodied, the synthesis between architecture and innovation."  
  Although Chapman died two years before the iconic East Stand was opened his legacy and the symbol he helped to create live on.  
  Copyright 2024 The Arsenal Football Club Limited. Permission to use quotations from this article is granted subject to appropriate credit being given to www.arsenal.com as the source.  
  The History of Royal Arsenal’s first ever stadium – The Manor Ground in Plumstead | OneFootball  
  Just Arsenal News  
  ·27 mars 2024  
  The History of Royal Arsenal’s first ever stadium – The Manor Ground in Plumstead  
  Ajouter à ta liste de lecturePartage cet article  
  The Manor Ground- Arsenals first stadium  
  When many think of Arsenal’s old home they tend to think of Highbury and they wouldn’t be wrong of course, however their first true stadium was based in Woolwich, South Plumstead in London.  
  Vidéos OneFootball  
  The name of their original home was the all encompassing Manor Ground. At the time the Gunners went by the name of “Royal Arsenal” which was the name of the ammunition factory the club was born out of in Woolwich, it would later be changed to “Woolwich Arsenal” in the 1890s before they departed Kent for good in 1913 for North London. When Arsenal established their presence in 1888 at the location there were little facilities for them to bear, with some hands on work they hauled in wagons with the help of the army for fans to stand on for games.  
  Within a short period Arsenal had had enough of the number of problems which accompanied their time at the Manor Ground in 1890. Their home sat on a large slope which meant spectators could watch from above and didn’t need to pay to watch which cost the club dearly, they didn’t have any real terracing or stands, on top of this accompanying the southern part of the stadium was Southern Outfall Sewer which created extremely and poor muddy playing conditions which diminished the name of Arsenal and their ground.  
  Arsenal briefly left the Manor Ground for the Invicta Ground between 1890 and 1893 which was designated almost over the road from one another. There they were blessed with a stand, terracing and changing rooms which the Gunners didn’t contain at their previous stadium. However Arsenal popped back over the road to their former emporium after being forced out of the Invicta by the landlord after struggling to pay rent, after becoming professional and joining forces with the football league which was when the club changed from “Royal Arsenal” to “Woolwich Arsenal”.  
  For the next two decades till 1913 when Arsenal left for Highbury they moved back to their now preferred home the Manor Ground, after making enough money £6,000 thanks to a share crisis to buy the stadium. With money in hand the Gunners were finally able to construct a proper stadium with a stand and terracing being built. For their 1893/94 debut campaign when Woolwich Arsenal finished ninth in the Second Division and over 20 points off of top spot, their rough attendance for the season was 6,000, which was higher than what they had been achieving previously!  
  After nearly ten years of football league action a second stand was added to the Manor Ground in 1904. This new terrace became the first ever “Spion Kop” in English football to date, during the same year Woolwich Arsenal had earned promotion to the top-flight of English football for the first time with attendances jumping massively to 20,000 on a few occasions but this was not a constant.  
  With almost 20 years of First and Second Division football played at Manor Ground, Sir Henry Norris who was already chairman of Fulham picked up the pieces at Arsenal as the Gunners new chair in 1910, within only a handful of years he transported the club to Highbury in 1913 with not too many handkerchiefs being waved at Woolwich.  
  Not long afterwards the old Manor Ground was knocked down and laid abandoned until now over a century later. Exactly 1,750 new homes have or will be built by the end of 2030 on the once foundations of The Arsenal in Plumstead.  
  CALLING ALL ARSENAL FANS! Anyone who would like to contribute an Article or Video opinion piece on JustArsenal, please contact us through this link…  
  A brief History of Arsenal FC  
  The Early Years  
  Established in 1886, Arsenal F.C. are one of England’s most prestigious and successful clubs with a long, colourful and fascinating history. The North London club have won the English Premier League a total of thirteen times, the F.A. Cup twelve times and also boast a duo of League Cup wins and a continental trophy from the competition now known as the Europa League. Arsenal’s goal scoring record is currently held by French club legend Thierry Henry, with 175 competitive goals for the Gunners, and the record number of appearances belongs to defender David O’Leary who racked up 558 outings in an Arsenal shirt. Arsenal have enjoyed many fierce rivalries during their time as a professional football club, whether it be with Manchester United during the late 90s and early 00s or their passionate bouts with East London’s West Ham United. However, the Gunners most enduring and meaningful rivalry is undoubtedly with fellow North Londoners, Tottenham Hotspur. Matches between Arsenal and Spurs have long been a highlight on any football fan’s calendar and the fixture has given rise to a host of classic confrontations, with the rivalry burning as fiercely as ever to this day.Originally formed under the name Dial Square, Arsenal was founded by Royal Arsenal, a group of munitions workers in Woolwich, London and in 1893, the club changed their name to Woolwich Arsenal and finally joined the football league proper. Arsenal’s beginnings in munitions have earned them the affectionate nickname ‘The Gunners’, a moniker still widely used to this day. Since many of the club’s initial group of players joined from Nottingham Forest, the Gunners started life wearing spare Forest kits, thus beginning the club’s long standing tradition of wearing red coloured shirts for home games. Despite winning promotion to English football’s top tier in 1904, Woolwich Arsenal’s early years were not without struggle and the club were forced to declare bankruptcy in 1910 due to a mixture of the munitions workers’ financial troubles and declining attendance numbers at games caused by the increasing number of other football clubs beginning to establish themselves in the country’s capital. Happily, the club was saved by two local businessmen who renamed the football club ‘The Arsenal’ and relocated them to their long-term home of Highbury where they would stay until the next millennium. With their fortunes successfully reversed, Arsenal (the ‘The’ in their name was eventually dropped) quickly became a financial powerhouse and the club were soon able to afford the services of then-Huddersfield Town manager Herbert Chapman who would go on to revolutionise the club and lead them to their greatest period of sustained success.  
  Initial Success in the 1930s  
  The 1930s saw Arsenal experience their first real period of domination within English football, with the decade bringing the club five League campaign wins and two F.A. Cup trophies. With star strikers such as Cliff Bastin and David Jack at their disposal, the North London club quickly registered their first national trophy win in the 1930 F.A. Cup competition, an accolade swiftly followed by back to back League wins, as Herbert Chapman continued to take Arsenal to the top of the English game. The 1930/31 season also marked the first appearance of a foreign player in an Arsenal shirt, Dutch goalkeeper Gerry Keyser. The Gunner’s momentum was to be tragically shaken however, when Chapman suddenly passed away in 1934 from pneumonia. Herbert Chapman would, naturally, never be forgotten by Arsenal fans and his work at Highbury ensured that even after his death, the club’s footballing successes continued, as the Gunners completed the 1933/34 campaign with a League trophy and ended the decade as a force to be reckoned with, collecting two more League titles and an F.A. Cup win. After the suspension of the football league due to World War II, Arsenal continued to gather trophies and by 1953 had become English football’s most successful ever side in terms of silverware.  
  The Post-War Slump  
  Sadly, Arsenal’s period of prosperity would not last indefinitely. The Second World War had taken its toll on the Gunners, both in terms of the amount of players who tragically lost their lives in the conflict and due to the costly repairs needed to repair the damage German bombs caused to club’s Highbury home. These setbacks marked the beginning of a barren period in Arsenal’s history, as they failed to register a significant trophy win for eighteen long years and were forced to compete with an aging squad, unable to afford the substantial replacements needed. Notably however, wartime periods had a habit of bringing football clubs together and where long-time rivals Tottenham had been permitted the use of Highbury in the wake of World War I, Spurs duly returned the favour in the second conflict. By the end of the sixties, Arsenal fans had begun to see a light at the end of the tunnel thanks to new manager Bertie Mee who led the club to the first piece of European silverware in their history during the 1969/70 season (the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup) and followed that up with the first League and F.A. Cup double in the 1970/71 season. The Gunners continued through the decade with improved results and although they struggled to collect more trophies, the club were far more competitive than during the previous decade thanks to figures such as Pat Jennings and Liam Brady – both now considered club legends. Former double-winning player George Graham returned to take over as manager in 1986, subsequently leading the club through another period of glory which included two League titles, two League cups, an F.A. Cup and a European Cup Winners’ Cup. Before Graham could build upon his Arsenal legacy further however, he was dismissed due to accusations of bribery in the signings of several players.  
  The Arrival of Arsene Wenger  
  In 1996, the Gunners replaced George’s successor, Bruce Rioch, with Frenchman Arsene Wenger. Wenger had previously enjoyed successful managerial spells with A.S. Monaco in France and Nagoya Grampus Eight in the Japanese league but his arrival at Highbury marked his first foray into English football. His arrival would also herald the dawn of a brand new era of success for the London club. The nadir of Arsene Wenger’s reign so far came during the 2003/04 season, in which Arsenal not only won the Premier League but also remained unbeaten for the whole campaign. The team, subsequently known as The Invincibles, contained such iconic footballing figures as Thierry Henry, Patrick Viera and Dennis Bergkamp and would go down in history as one of English football’s most cohesive and effective sides. In 2006, Arsenal relocated from their home of Highbury to the newly built, state of the art Emirates Stadium, a move that epitomised the Gunners’ consistent on-pitch success and financial fortunes. As well as a period of sustained success, Arsene Wenger also introduced a more youth-focused approach to his recruitment philosophy, bringing in a number of talented diamonds in the rough and shaping them into world-beating megastars. Household names such as Robin Van Persie, Cesc Febragas and Aaron Ramsey were all signed by Wenger in their formative years and gradually introduced into the first team, eventually going on to become integral players for the North London club.  
  2010s and the Future  
  More recent years have seen a shift towards an increasingly balanced approach, mixing fresh faces with established, big-name talent and Arsene opened his chequebook to bring in world class players such as Mesut Ozil – the German playmaker from Real Madrid – and Alexis Sanchez – an attacking winger from Chile who found his opportunities limited as Barcelona. Despite these signings, big trophies have somewhat eluded the Gunners as of late, however they have maintained a remarkable consistency in the league that has earned them a constant presence in the UEFA Champions League and they mount strong title challenges year upon year. With the retirement of Manchester United’s Sir Alex Ferguson in 2013, Arsene Wenger became the Premier League’s longest serving manager and he continues to lead the Gunners in their quest for glory.  
  Share this:  
  474: Peter John Goy 1938-2021  
  Peter Goy: The Arsenal 1953-1960  
  The first ever Arsenal Youth team goalkeeper, his chances at Arsenal in the first team were stymied as the side had a surfeit of top class keepers, and in particular Jack Kelsey.  
  Share this:  
  537: Geoffrey Colin “Geoff” Barnett 1946-2021  
  Geoff Barnett: The Arsenal 1969-1976  
  The long term deputy for Bob Wilson and Jimmy Rimmer in the first half of the 70s, Barnett appeared in the 1972 FA Cup final.  
  Born in Northwich, Cheshire on 16 October 1946 he was spotted early as a huge talent and became keeper for Mid-Cheshire schoolboys, Cheshire schoolboys and then England schoolboys. Feted by both Matt Busby of Manchester United and Everton’s Harry Catterick, he decided to go with Everton.  
  On leaving Winsford Grammar school as a 15 year old in July 1962, the club agreed to make arrangements for Geoff to continue his receive schooling due to his young age. Signed professionally in May 1964, he won the FA Youth Cup in 1965 as the Toffees beat the Gunners in front of 30,000 spectators, putting in a performance that ensured Barnett was placed on the Arsenal radar. He also represented England as a youth international on a number of occasions. Promoted to the first team squad he could not displace Blues number one Gordon West and often vied with Andy Rankin as reserve while at Goodison Park, which meant in essence he spent most of his time in the A team.  
  After ten Everton first team performances, Barnett was purchased on 1 October 1969 for £35,000 by Arsenal manager Bertie Mee, who was looking for a trusted understudy to an injured Wilson. He became the 537th player to don the Arsenal colours when he made his debut a few days later on 4 October 1969 at Highbury in a 1-0 loss to Coventry after which he went on a 13 match run until Wilson returned in December. During this run he played against Sporting Club de Portugal in both legs of the first round at the start of the Fairs Cup winning run, keeping clean sheets on each occasion.  
  At Highbury like at Everton he did not get many chances, staying in the shadows owing to the excellence of the respective first choices, which was never better displayed than during the 1970/71 double season as he remained in the Combination side owing to Wilson being an ever present for the first team.  
  Bob and Geoff.  
  However at the end of the next campaign, Wilson was badly injured with a torn cartilage in the drawn first Semi-final in April 1972 and faced a long lay-off. This led to Geoff’s longest consecutive string of games for the Gunners and indeed in his top flight career, as he played 30 times at the end of the 1971/72 season and well into the 1973/73 campaign until Wilson regained his place in November 1972. Consequently, this gave Barnett his career highlight as he appeared in the FA Cup Semi-final replay and the FA Cup Final at Wembley of 1972, and picking up a runners-up medal. He had a decent game in the final and had no chance for the one Leeds goal that clinched a boring final.  
  After this run there were few chances even once Wilson retired, as he was replaced by the exceptional Rimmer. Interestingly of all the goalkeepers who played for Arsenal at least 40 times he has conceded the fewest goals per game at 0.78. A great statistic for a reserve!  
  His final game came on 13 Dec 1975 at Stoke, and in all made 49 first team appearances, kept 23 clean sheets conceding 38 times. Additionally he played 191 reserve games including gaining a Football Combination Cup Winners medal 1969/70.  
  A keen cricketer he played for a number of local sides. Additionally he appeared in the North London Derby Cricket contest in 1973 as Arsenal beat Tottenham at Finsbury Park in aid of the Woodberry Down Boys Club. John Radford and Charlie George opened the innings, Bob Wilson kept wicket, with amongst others Peter Storey, Peter Simpson, Bob McNab, and his old Everton team mate Alan Ball donning their whites. Bertie Mee and Spurs manager Bill Nicholson acted as umpires.  
  Geoff Barnett sitting in the front row, second from left.  
  He left Highbury in February 1976 to take on the tenancy of the Waggon and Horses in Watton at Stone, Hertfordshire. Additionally he signed for the Minnesota Kicks for whom he played and coached until 1981 when they folded as a football concern. From here on he moved between the two countries, running a restaurant in America, and pubs in England including the George & Dragon, Holmes Chapel, Cheshire.  
  He had moved back to the USA, where he died on 15 January 2021 in Florida.  
  Sources  
  Share this:  
  Samuel Udoka Oji: 1985-2021  
  Samuel Oji: The Arsenal 2000-04  
  A strong physically imposing defender who played in over 60 youth games, and a handful of reserve outings, for The Arsenal around the start of the Millenium.  
  Born on 9 October 1985 in Westminster, Sam was spotted as a youngest and as a schoolboy made eight and nine appearances for the Arsenal U17s in 2000/01 and 2001/02 respectively. He impressed and was signed into the Arsenal academy in the summer of 2002 as a Central defender. During 2002/03 he became a major feature of the U17 side turning out 19 times, and also played five times for the Arsenal U19 side. In the next season Oji graduated to be a mainstay of the U19 side playing 23 times, and additionally in 2003/04 made four Arsenal reserve appearances.  
  However, he did not remain at Highbury instead signing his first professional contract with Birmingham City in the summer of 2004, and spent four years at the Blues, making one first team appearance. Whilst there he also had loan spells at Doncaster Rovers making five apps in 2005/06, Bristol Rovers appearing five times in 2006/07 and four times for Leyton Orient 2007-08. He joining the O’s permanently later in the same season and added 11 more performances, making 15 in all.  
  At Hereford in 2008-09 he made five appearances, before a serious knee injury effectively ended his career as an English league professional footballer. In 2009 he tried out at Swedish side Ljungskile, but his knee injury morphed into cruciate ligament damage and was so serious it prevented him from playing for two years. After recovery he joined Tamworth in 2011 and while there he turned out 39 times in two seasons.  
  Oji spent time in Ireland with both Limerick in 2013 and Galway in 2015, returning to England with Worcester City in 2016, Hednesford Town in 2017 before joining Highgate United in 2018. The Captain of Highgate United he had recently been made assistant manager at his death on 28 August 2021, aged 35.  
  Sources  
  Share this:  
  Glenn Victor Roeder 1955-2021  
  Glenn Roeder: The Arsenal 1971-72  
  Glenn Roeder made a half-a-dozen youth team appearances at Arsenal before leaving the club in 1972, returning to the Gunners for an impromptu cameo at the end of the 1977/78 season. Subsequently in a long career he went onto make over 600 competitive appearances as a player. An elegant, cultured ball-playing centre back, who often played as a sweeper, he was famous for the “Roeder Shuffle” which was executed by way of a smart step-over often springing defence into rapid attack. Later he had spells as manager in charge of a number of clubs for over 400 games; in short a true football man.  
  Born 13 December 1955 in Woodford, Essex, Roeder represented both Essex and London schoolboys at football. Though not listed in the official Arsenal handbook as an apprentice at the start of the 1971-72 season, he was at the club as a youth during that season alongside Liam Brady. His first Arsenal game was a colt side friendly against Dulwich Hamlet on 7 August 1971 and his last match was in the South East Counties League versus Reading on 15 Jan 1972. Roeder made four competitive appearances and played in two friendlies for the colts between August 1971 and January 1972, scoring once against Charlton on New Years Day 1972. Consequently, by dint of his few games Glenn assisted Arsenal in winning the South East Counties league that season.  
  Glenn Roeder takes the ball from Frank Stapleton during the 1978 FA Cup Semi-final  
  Taken on as an apprentice by Leyton Orient in the summer of 1972, he signed professional terms for Orient in October 1973. Part of the ‘O’s team that reached FA Cup Semi final in 1978, only to be despatched by the Gunners at Stamford Bridge with a brace by Malcolm MacDonald. In hindsight Arsenal may as well have allowed Orient to get to their first final, as they couldn’t have performed any worse than the Gunners did at Wembley, and may well have beaten Ipswich. He represented England in the ‘B’ international team for six games, five of which came in this time at Orient.  
  Given a surprise guest role in the Arsenal defence on 12 May 1978 for the John Pratt Testimonial, he helped the Gunners to a 5-3 victory at Tottenham. The Spurs side contained Jimmy Greaves, while Arsenal saw a return to the ranks for Frank McLintock and John Radford, alongside Roeder.  
  Queens Park Rangers paid £250,000 for him and he was greeted by caretaker manager Alec Stock in August 1978. However, a few months into his contract he put in a transfer request as he was rarely used in the first half of the season by new manager Steve Burtenshaw. The conflict bubbled on and only ended after Burtenshaw (who earlier in the 70s was at Arsenal at the same time as Roeder) left the club in May 1979. Thriving under first Tommy Docherty and then Terry Venables, Glenn was made captain. Rangers reached the FA Cup final in 1982, and while appearing at Wembley, he missed leading out the side for the replay due to ludicrous FA suspension rules. A season later in 1982/83 QPR won the old Second Division title, but Roeder was mainly in the reserves that season, owing to long term injury, as they also won the Combination title.  
  Loaned to Notts County, then a top flight concern, for a month in November 1983, where he was immensely popular not least because they were unbeaten with him in their side! At the end of the loan supporters raised £30,000 in 36 hours for a transfer fund but it was not enough and, after 181 appearances for the Rs, Newcastle United paid £120,000 for him in December 1983. They won promotion from the old Second Division into the top flight in the same 1983/84 season and he became a loved figure on Tyneside. He was installed as captain, taking Paul Gascoigne under his wing, as they became firm friends. Roeder even made Gascoigne the godfather of his son.  
  Roeder controls the ball while Charlie Nicholas looks on – September 1985 at Highbury (Photo by David Cannon/Allsport/Getty Images)  
  Roeder played 217 times for Newcastle prior to Watford acquiring his services in June 1989. By this time a veteran defender, he was looking to move into coaching roles, and while in a leadership position as captain, the coaching element was encouraged by Watford in the reserves. In the early 90s he was mentioned in the tabloids as being lined up to be Gazza’s mentor in Italy when his ex-magpie colleague moved to Lazio. Claiming it was all set and Glenn was going to leave Watford and take his whole family to Italy with him, as he schemed to assist Gazza.  
  As with most tabloid stories it did not come to fruition but did have an element of truth to it, as Roeder seemingly had agreed to the role, but changed his mind after too many nightlife indiscretions. Roeder remained at Watford, making 86 appearances before leaving in February 1992. He returned for a brief period to Brisbane Road near the end of his playing career, where he had been on a trial since January, reunited with the club who gave him his professional break, he ended with – 123 (more as this is league only) apps in his two stints at Orient.  
  Gillingham offered him a player-manager role in 1992/93 and after keeping them in the Football League, moved again to Watford this time as manager between 1993-1996, where he gave goal machine, Kevin Phillips his debut in league football. A period outside management saw him help out at Burnley for a season with Chris Waddle, and later in the England set up under Glen Hoddle during and around the 1998 World Cup.  
  Harry Redknapp brought him into his managerial team at his boyhood club West Ham in 1999, and after Redknapp’s departure in 2001 was made manager, leading them to seventh place in the top flight in the 2001/02 season. A brain tumour was diagnosed in April 2003 led to operations and after leaving West Ham, recuperation away from work.  
  Roeder and Kenny Sansom repel Steve Bould, with Paul Merson looking on in April 1989. (Photograph: Colorsport/Shutterstock)  
  He came back to Newcastle in 2005 as the academy head, and then in February 2006 became manager. He led the team to win the Inter Toto cup in 2006:- the first manager to win a trophy for NUFC since Joe Harvey in 1969. Very popular on Tyneside continuing on from his playing days he gave Tim Krul and Andy Carroll debuts but left at the end of the 2006/07 season. Manager at Norwich between 2007-09, he also later took on advisory roles at Sheffield Wednesday and Stevenage.  
  All reports speak of his kindness and decency, as Howard Wilkinson eloquently stated after news of his passing:  
  “Glenn was such an unassuming, kind gentleman who demonstrated lifelong dedication to the game. Not one to court headlines, his commitment and application to his work at all levels warrants special mention. Football has lost a great servant today and our sincere condolences go to Glenn’s family and friends.”  
  Glenn Roeder died on 28 February 2021, succumbing to the brain tumour which he had fought for 18 years.  
  Share this:  
  637: Alan Miller 1970-2021  
  Alan Miller: The Arsenal 1984-1994  
  A popular reserve keeper at Highbury, he was equally admired at all his clubs, and in particular by both fans and his fellow professionals at Plymouth, Middlesbrough and West Bromwich Albion.  
  Born on 29 March 1970 in Epping, Miller played for Essex Schoolboys, was an England Schoolboy international, and a graduate in the inaugural intake at the FA National School of excellence at Lilleshall. Indeed he was the first Lilleshall attendee to gain international honours for England being picked for the U21 side in 1988, for whom he made an overall total of four appearances.  
  Arsenal signed him in July 1984 as a schoolboy, and apprenticed in July 1986 he was taken on by the club as a professional in May 1988. He appeared regularly in the youth and reserves sides, acquiring the nickname of ‘Max’ from Pat Rice after the popular music hall blue comedian, Max Miller.  
  Miller was an integral part of a tight goalkeeping unit at Arsenal coached by Bob Wilson, first as cover for John Lukic, and then David Seaman. Tall at 6′ 3” with great agility, solid handling skills and a friendly nature, the presence of both two such top rate keepers in Lukic and then Seaman denied him the chance to establish himself at Highbury.  
  On loan at Plymouth during the 1988/89 season he made a big impact during the 15 games he appeared for Argyle.  
  Miller will go down as a serious contender for the best ever loan player to grace Home Park after a sparkling 15-game spell for the club. The goalkeeper was brought to the Westcountry on loan from Arsenal in 1988, and was an instant hit.  
  From the GreenOnScreen.co.uk player biography  
  In March 1991 he had a back operation and the club bought in Jim Leighton on loan for the rest of the season as reserve to Seaman. Further loan spells came during the 1991/92 seasons first with West Bromwich Albion and latterly with Birmingham City.  
  His Arsenal debut came on 21 November 1992 as a second half substitute at Elland Road when David Seaman was injured with a bruised hip and replaced by George Graham with Miller in the 52nd minute. That Leeds side on the day remarkably featured four ex-Gunners: John Lukic, David Rocastle, Lee Chapman and Chris Whyte.  
  Back up to Seaman in 1993 for both the League Cup and FA Cup final victories at Wembley, and again in 1994 European Cup Winners Cup at the Parken Stadium in Copenhagen. Three days after the ECWC triumph he made his last competitive appearance for Arsenal in a game at Newcastle on 7 May 1994.  
  Miller celebrating with goal scorer Alan Smith after the ECWC final!  
  He made eight competitive first team appearances for the Gunners, in which he conceded 10 goal and kept three clean sheets. Additionally he play in 64 youth games and 131 Reserve matches, in which time as well as his first team winners’ medals, he won winners’ medals in the FA Youth Cup in 1987/88 and Combination Championship in 1989/90.  
  On 8 August, a few months after the memorable European night he moved to Middlesbrough for £325,000. While at Boro he was initially given the no. 1 shirt, and was part of the team that achieved promotion to the Premier League in 1995. He returned to Highbury at the start of the 1995/96 season receiving a splendid reaction from the Highbury faithful.  
  When he made a Premier League return at the beginning of the 1995/96 season he was so happy that he got such a great reception from the Arsenal fans. He loved the supporters and genuinely felt a great connection with them.  
  Letter from his family to Arsenal after his sad death.  
  But as time went on he was replaced between the sticks which culminated in November 1996 with him being placed on the transfer list at his own request, which in turn led to loans to Huddersfield, Grimsby and WBA again in 1997.  
  The loan became a full transfer from Middlesbrough, for whom he had made 64 appearances, to WBA in the summer of 1997. Miller was so impressive in his first season he was picked for the PFA First Division (now Championship) Select side chosen by his peers in 1997/98. His status as a Baggie cult hero on the terraces was confirmed when he lifted his shirt to reveal a ‘boing boing’ t-shirt during a 1-0 win over bitter rivals Wolves.  
  After being first choice for three seasons his back injury re-appeared which meant he lost his number one role and, after a cumulative total of 108 appearances for WBA, was consequently transferred to Blackburn Rovers in 2000. Rarely appearing at Blackburn, Alan had further loans at Bristol City, Coventry City and St Johnstone. However owing to injuries he was recalled to the Blackburn bench for the 2002 League Cup Final picking up another winners’ medal as a reserve keeper in a final!  
  Unfortunately his recurring back injury, which was the same as that operated on in 1991 while at Arsenal, forced him to retire in 2003. Whereupon he moved to Mallorca for a number of years running a holiday business, before becoming a pub landlord of the Jockey pub in Burnham Market, and then after playing for the Holkham Cricket club, to Holkham estate as business development manager at Holkham Hall. A keen horse racing fan, he owned some horses and loved dogs, shown as he won awards for turning a cafe in the Holkham Estate into a dog friendly concern.  
  Ian Wright, Lee Dixon, David Seaman, Bob Wilson, David Hillier, Michael Thomas Ray Parlour, Perry Groves – a broad range of ages from players all paid immediate and heartfelt tributes to Miller.  
  Miller on the left (his head is on the B of Barclays) next to Steve Morrow at Anfield  
  The reaction to Alan Miller’s sad passing from Arsenal fans tells you something about being an Arsenal Man. Only a handful of first-team appearances but Arsenal through and through and loved as a result. Immortalised at Anfield 89 on the touchline with Steve Morrow in their suits.  
  WBA celebrated the life of Alan Miller on 15 October 2021 in their Championship fixture against another of his former sides, Birmingham City. A minute’s applause was held ahead of kick-off with players from both sides also wearing black armbands.  
  Alan Miller died on 3 June 2021, suddenly of a heart attack.  
  Share this:  
  599: Paul Mariner 1953-2021  
  Paul Mariner: The Arsenal 1984-86  
  An old school centre-forward, and occasional emergency centre-half, the England International revitalised Arsenal at the end of 1983/84 and was part of a great attacking team at the start of 1984/85.  
  Born 22 May 1953 at Farnworth, Bolton he was a no nonsense target man, with a rare ability to bring other strikers into the game. Starting in junior football for St Gregory’s Boys Club, Paul was noted at Chorley United in the Lancashire League during the 1972/73 campaign when spotted by Plymouth Argyle scouts and they persuaded him to move to the Third Division Devon club for £6,000 in May 1973. He made an immediate impression at Home Park and in 1974/75 helped the Greens to promotion into Division Two (now Championship). Overall he made 155 appearances and scored 61 times, before Bobby Robson signed him for Ipswich Town in October 1976 for £200,000 plus add-ons dependent on future England selections.  
  Bobby Robson Welcomes Paul Mariner to Ipswich!  
  At the Suffolk club he scored 139 goals in 339 games in a golden era under Bobby Robson in which they won the FA Cup in 1977/78 and UEFA Cup in 1980/81. Of course the FA Cup final win came at the expense of Arsenal, though only the most churlish of Gooners would deny that Ipswich fully deserved the victory on the day.  
  After being transfer listed by Ipswich he was bought for £150,000 on 9 February 1984 by Don Howe who was well aware of Mariner’s talent as he coached him at the England national team. The 599th player to don the famous red and white shirt, his debut came on 18 February 1984 at Highbury partnering Charlie Nicholas and Tony Woodcock upfront in a 1-1 draw against Aston Villa. This attacking triumvirate ensured the team moved from 14th at the time of Mariner’s arrival to finish the season sixth. Better was to come in the next campaign as the Gunners topped the league into November 1984, where the Arsenal were a revelation playing some scintillating stuff, which many believed was the best the club had played since the 71 double side.  
  Mariner strolling around the Highbury pitch  
  But results faded and exits at Oxford United (a game Paul missed with injury) and York City in the cup competitions took the shine off the fantastic initial potential for the 1984/85 season. The next season he was blighted by an Achilles heel injury which saw him only play a handful of matches with his final appearance seeing him come off the bench against Nottingham Forest on 8 April 1986. Mariner left on a free transfer in August 1986 to Portsmouth having made 70 appearances and notching 17 goals for the Gunners.  
  At Portsmouth, though in his twilight playing years, he assisted the side into the top flight after a successful 1986/87, and consequently received a great reception from the North Bank on his return to Highbury in August 1987. However, the 6-0 drubbing the Hampshire side received did not auger well, and sure enough Pompey lasted only a season in the First Division before relegation back to the Second Division.  
  After 9 goals in 66 games for Pompey, Paul signed on for Naxxar Lions of Malta at the end of the 1987/88 season. He remained playing for the Maltese side for a number of years, commuting weekly from his home in Lavenham, near Ipswich, once a week to appear for the Maltese Premier League outfit. From the Summer of 1989 he would also go to the USA as player-coach for Albany Capitols, and later the San Francisco Hawks.  
  Keen to stay in football he coached at Bolton School but moved to America to coach youths in locations such as Arizona and Lake Placid, and also went worldwide to non-football nations such as Japan. He assisted at Harvard and New England Revolution before being appointed Plymouth Argyle manager during a turbulent off field time in 2009/2010. Mariner ended his stint over the Atlantic with a few years at Toronto after he left Home Park.  
  He also had a successful international playing career, scoring 13 goals in 35 England appearances in eight years, between 1977 and 1985, including the Euro 80 and World Cup 82 tournaments.  
  Mariner Strikes a Pose at the 82 World Cup Finals  
  A highly popular character seemingly liked by all supporters, irrespective of club affiliation, Paul Mariner died on 9 July 2021 of brain cancer, aged 68.  
  Sources  
  Share this:  
  Over Land And Sea And Lockdown: Arsenal 2020/21 – By Darren Berry  
  Book signing event at the Tollington before the Villa game on Friday 22 October from 16:00  
  If you haven’t bought Over Land And Sea And Lockdown yet please do. It’s brilliant, Darren Berry is one funny f*cker and a great writer. I love it – Bam @ArsenalHomerton  
  Share this:  
  Whenever a new Arsenal player makes his debut, the question “how many players have played for Arsenal?” usually gets asked. Well, here is the answer – every player that has played for Arsenal’s first team in a competitive game in chronological order.  
  Any player that has an asterisk (*) next to his name scored on his Arsenal debut, and any names underlined will show a picture of the the player if you hover your mouse pointer over the name. We’ll add these as and when we can, but bear with us as it’s a time consuming process.  
  Where two or more players made their debut in the same game, they are given the same chronological number. If two or more players came on as a substitute in the same game, they are given consecutive chronological numbers dependent upon the order in which they came on.  
  And one last thing, you’re probably best off viewing this page on a PC or laptop. Read More →  
