  The 10 most expensive defender transfers of all time: Maguire to Man Utd, Van Dijk to Liverpool and Man City flop  
  Manchester United, Manchester City and Liverpool have been responsible for signing some of the most expensive defenders in history.  
  Big-money defensive signings have become more common in recent years as they are now expected to do much more than just prevent goals.  
  We’ve now taken a look at the 10 most expensive defenders in history and how they fared after completing their big-money moves.  
  Note: we’ve included any potential add-ons and bonuses in the total figures.  
  10. Achraf Hakimi – £60.9m  
  Despite winning the Serie A title in his debut season at Inter Milan, Hakimi was sold by the club in 2021 in order to raise funds.  
  Paris Saint-Germain fought off competition from Chelsea and won the race for his signature after agreeing to pay Inter an initial £51.3million and another £9.6million in add-ons.  
  The Morocco international has justified that price tag at the Parc des Princes and is widely regarded as one of the best right-backs in the world.  
  He’s recently been linked with Real Madrid and Manchester City but PSG are looking to extend his contract, which is due to expire in 2026.  
  9. Marc Cucurella – £63m  
  Cucurella enjoyed a brilliant debut season at Brighton in 2021/22 and his impressive performances attracted interest from Chelsea and Manchester City.  
  While City were willing to pay £40million for the left-back, Chelsea outbid them by giving the Seagulls an initial £56million and a further £7million in add-ons.  
  But he has failed to live up to expectations at Stamford Bridge and is currently behind Ben Chilwell and Levi Colwill in the pecking order.  
  8. Ruben Dias – £65m  
  One of two Manchester City defenders on this list, Dias joined Pep Guardiola’s side from Benfica in the summer of 2020.  
  The deal for the Portugal international was worth an initial £62million, with a further £3million subject to potential add-ons.  
  He made an instant impact at the Etihad Stadium, winning the Premier League Player of the Season award and the Football Writers’ Association (FWA) Footballer of the Year award in 2020/21.  
  The centre-back also helped the club win three successive Premier League titles, the FA Cup, the Carabao Cup, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  7= Lucas Hernandez – £68m  
  Bayern Munich signed Hernandez in 2019 after triggering the £68million release clause in his Atletico Madrid contract.  
  He enjoyed four trophy-filled seasons in Bavaria, winning four Bundesliga titles, two DFL-Supercups, the DFB-Pokal, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup.  
  But the France international, who can play at either left-back or centre-back, struggled with injury problems and made just 74 Bundesliga appearances for the club.  
  He was sold at a considerable loss in the summer of 2023, joining Paris Saint-Germain in a deal worth an initial £34million.  
  7= Matthijs de Ligt – £68m  
  Despite only being 24 years old, De Ligt has already been involved in two big-money transfers.  
  His most recent move saw him swap Juventus for Bayern Munich in 2022 after the Bundesliga side agreed to pay an initial £59.5million and a further £8.5million in add-ons.  
  The centre-back won the DFL-Supercup and the Bundesliga in 2022/23 and was also named in the Bundesliga Team of the Season.  
  He fell down the pecking order following the arrival of Kim Min-jae in the summer of 2023 but has now reclaimed his place in Thomas Tuchel’s starting XI.  
  5= Wesley Fofana – £75m  
  Fofana spent two seasons at Leicester City and established himself as one of the best young defenders in the Premier League.  
  The Foxes rejected three bids from Chelsea in the summer of 2022 before accepting a fourth offer of £70million upfront and an additional £5million in bonuses.  
  “It is a recognition of my work, but I’m trying not to think of the fee because that can quickly put me under a lot of pressure,” he said after completing the move. “It’s important that I keep the enjoyment of playing football.”  
  But injuries have plagued his first two years at Stamford Bridge, limiting the 23-year-old to just 20 appearances in a Chelsea shirt.  
  5= Virgil van Dijk – £75m  
  Eyebrows were raised in January 2018 when Liverpool bought Van Dijk from Southampton in a £75million deal – a then-world record fee for a defender.  
  But the centre-back has more than proved his worth, helping Liverpool win the Premier League, two Carabao Cups, the FA Cup, the Champions League, a UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  He’s also picked up a host of individual accolades, including the PFA Players’ Player of the Year award and the UEFA Men’s Player of the Year award in 2018/19.  
  The 32-year-old initially struggled after suffering an anterior cruciate knee ligament injury in October 2020 but has since rediscovered his best form.  
  3. Matthijs de Ligt – £77.1m  
  The aforementioned De Ligt became one of the most sought-after players in the world after captaining Ajax to the Champions League semi-finals and the Eredivisie title in 2018/19.  
  Juventus forked out an initial £67.7million and another £9.4million in potential add-ons for the then-19-year-old, making him the third-most expensive teenager of all time.  
  He won the Serie A title in his debut season and the Coppa Italia in 2020/21 but failed to replicate his Ajax form in a Juventus shirt.  
  The Netherlands international fell out of favour under Massimiliano Allegri in the 2021/22 campaign and was sold to Bayern Munich at a slight loss.  
  2. Josko Gvardiol – £77.6m  
  After winning the treble in 2022/23, Manchester City bolstered their defensive options by signing Gvardiol from RB Leipzig in a £77.6million deal.  
  “First of all, he’s a central defender left, that’s not easy,” Guardiola said. “His physical condition is really, really good and his build-up with his left foot is also really, really good.  
  “He is 21 years old so when you buy, of course, it’s a lot of money, but when you are 21 years old, it is not a problem. He will be with us for the future and that’s what we think.”  
  The Croatia international, who can play at centre-back and left-back, is a brilliant prospect but has struggled to adapt to the pace of Premier League football and is yet to justify that huge fee.  
  1. Harry Maguire – £80m  
  Having missed out on De Ligt in the summer of 2019, Manchester United switched their attention to Maguire and agreed to meet Leicester City’s £80million asking price.  
  The centre-back enjoyed a strong start to life at Old Trafford and was given the captain’s armband in January 2020, but his form took a nosedive amid United’s struggles in the 2021/22 season.  
  The 31-year-old has played a more prominent role in Ten Hag’s side in 2023/24, but he still faces an uncertain future at Old Trafford.  
  Related Articles  
  Just how good could Leeds United have been if they got all their targets when Marcelo Bielsa was in charge? Here's how their lineup could have ended up  
  Southgate has issued an emphatic response to claims he will become the next Man Utd manager after sending a strong message to the under-pressure Ten Hag  
  West Ham will attempt to sign Man Utd defender Harry Maguire for the second straight summer and the surprise magic number that could seal a deal has been revealed  
  A loaned out Liverpool player might be the answer to who replaces Joel Matip at Anfield next season, while a clear winner has emerged in the debate over who is having the better season between Saliba and Van Dijk  
  Articles  
  1891-1892: A new perspective on the birth of Liverpool FC  
  A cartoon in Liverpool Review in 1892 highlighted King John's fall from grace at Everton. The text beneath the picture says: Moral - A "King" may be knocked down in various ways. If we were a "King" we would prefer the blow came from another than a football quarter.  
  Meeting 8th of March 1892.  
  A general meeting was announced by Everton FC for 15th of March. Everton FC also announced an agreement of Houlding's request a copy of the prospectus of his new company, Everton Football Club and Athletic Grounds Company, Limited was to be sent to each member along with the notice convening the meeting.  
  Meeting 15th of March 1892 - Presbyterian schools in Royal-street.  
  Houlding and Everton finally parted ways at Everton's general meeting. Requisition 1-1 stated the following: "That Messrs John Houlding, Alexander Nisbet and Thomas C. Howarth having lost the confidence of the members of the club, be respectively removed from the presidency and the committee."  
  Everton FC also had to address Houlding's attempted takeover of the club announced in his prospectus from 26th of January which is here quoted: "The Company propose that in the event of Everton Football Club agreeing to amalgamate with the company, on or before the 15th of March 1892, each members of the said club at the date of such amalgamation (in the whole not exceeding 500 members) shall be entitled upon application to have allotted to him one fully paid up share in the company free of charge."  
  Chairman George Mahon occupied the president’s chair at the meeting, but: "As the proceedings were about to begin, Mr John Houlding, the president, entered the room and was vociferously cheered by a section of the members. The Chairman, seeing that their president was present, thought he himself ought to occupy the position of an ordinary committeeman, and to ask him to take the chair. Mr. Houlding. – "I cannot hear." The Chairman. – "I have asked you, as president of the club, to take the chair (cheers)." Mr. Houlding. – "I am here on trial, and a criminal never takes the chair, he stops in the dock [A voice cries out: ‘Best place for him!’]" The Chairman remarked that, seeing Mr. Houlding had declined to take the chair, it was his duty to fill that position (cheers)."  
  Mahon said he was aghast to discover that two members of Everton FC's committee, Mr. Ramsey and Mr. Nisbet had been party to founding Houlding's new company. He also stated that the League had ruled in Everton FC's favour and forbid Houlding to use the word Everton in his new company's title "which practically knocked the new company on the head (loud applause)."  
  Regarding the amalgamation Mahon ridiculed Houlding's promise that each member "shall be entitled upon application to have allotted to him one fully paid up share in the company free of charge." He said that the members "should be entitled to at least seven or eight shares (Hear, hear and applause)."  
  Clayton rose (amid loud applause) to propose requisition 1-1 that Houlding, Nisbet and Howarth should be shown the door. He said that he did not propose this "from spite and spleen" (Oh, oh and applause). It was simply "a matter of business". Houlding was not "worthy of holding the position of president of this club" (Loud applause and hooting).  
  Mr. Martin was appalled and claimed there would be no Everton Football Club had it not been for Houlding (applause). Nisbet said he did not agree with this course of action and was resigning.  
  The chairman. - "You are not in order in doing so (applause)." Mr. Nisbet. - "I don't accept your ruling. I resign (laughter and applause). "Houlding then addressed the gathering to explain his side of the matter. He clearly felt he had been unfairly treated. Houlding claimed that when he received Orrell's notice he had brought a prospectus before Everton's committee that the club form a company and buy the ground, as he didn't want the liability of buying another ten thousand yards of land to replace Anfield. He said it was well received by the committee, yet at the general meeting in May 1891, some committee members, who had previously agreed with his propositions, had turned against him and the majority voted against the company.  
  Houlding was done for at Everton FC. Of the 500 present, only 18 voted in his favour. A decision had been made to split from Houlding and Anfield altogether and go to Goodison-road.  
  It should be noted that the rift between Houlding and Everton can also be traced to the Methodists who had been associated with the club since it was essentially the Sunday school team for St Domingo's church in the district of Everton. They disliked immensely the fact that Houlding's empire was based on alcoholic beverages. The Methodists would have undoubtedly liked to put Houlding in Prince Rupert's Tower, which was used to incarcerate criminals and is so prominent in the current Everton FC crest.  
  This whole sorry matter was discussed in the 19th of March 1892 issue of the Liverpool Echo. The writer was clearly not sympathetic towards Houlding starting by praising Mahon and his followers for getting rid of Houlding who he claims was essentially a "One man government" at Everton FC. "To submit Mr Houlding to such ungracious and ungenerous conduct at a public meeting might appear an outrage to some people, but when the two sides of the matter have been impartially dealt with the question might be asked, has Mr Houlding not invited it by his own dogmatic and not too courteous conduct towards the club and the committee! Did he invest his capital in the sell out of Anfield road in a purely philanthropic sense. Or as a speculation? Events unmistakeably point to the latter, for he will not give 1/2 p abatement from the highest rent he can place upon it."  
  "The fact is Mr Houlding had come to look upon the Everton club as his own property, to do with just as he pleased, and up to within a couple of years he presided over a committee who only looked through spectacles of his own making and he accordingly "Ruled the roost". Now a few practical men, with a capacity for "business" equal to Mr Houlding, have found their way onto the executive and declined to be either led by the nose or patronised. Mr Houlding is not the man to die tamely, as his opponents discovered over registration of his pet athletic company. As landlord of the ground, he declined to meet them on any but his own terms. But in this respect he has shown inconsistent and dogmatic spirit. First, he tells the committee that his own and Mr Orrell's properties adjacent is required for building purposes, but that the club might continue its tenancy if they will pay the rent demanded. This the committee declined as exorbitant and out of all reason. "Very well", says Mr Houlding. "You must look for another site", "here is the notice to quit my ground", thinking, no doubt, that will bring the body of "Independents" on the committee to their senses. Some of the gentlemen would have taken their shirts off their backs and given them to Mr Houlding if he had asked for them, but these did not include Messrs. Mahon and Clayton and those of the others who could afford to act differently. Instead of grouching they acquitted the proposition thrust upon them manfully."  
  Meeting 30th of March 1892 - Neptune hotel in Clayton Square.  
  Houlding had a big stadium, but no team and decided to create his own team to rival Everton FC. On 30th of March, the rules of the newly-formed club were approved by its committee, rule 1 stating: "That the club be called the Liverpool Football Club and shall play under the rules of the Football Association." Houlding was president of the club, Edwin Berry chairman, William E. Barclay secretary and John McKenna was alongside Barclay in charge of team affairs.  
  Some felt Houlding was harshly treated by Everton considering his financial muscle enabled Everton's success as seen in The Athletic and Dramatic News from 5th of April 1892 hoping for Liverpool's success: "Personally we should much like to see the new combination boom, if only to prove to Mr Houlding that, although he has been, all things considered badly treated by his colleagues, the football loving public of Liverpool have not forgotten his great services in the cause of their pastime."  
  A document confirming Houlding's new name of his company on 3rd of June 1892.  
  John Houlding was forced to change the name of his new company, "Everton Football Club and Athletic Grounds Company, Limited" to "Liverpool Football Club and Athletic Grounds Company, Limited", as the Football Association didn't agree with having two Everton football clubs.  
  The first game at Anfield under Houlding's presidency was a friendly against Midland League side Rotherham Town on 1st of September 1892. Houlding was praised for his efforts in the match programme: "To know him is to like him, though there are some who are hostile to him because they never tried to know him. He is a man of energy, determination, and honesty of purpose, and under his presidency, the Liverpool Club is sure to prosper, the same way the Everton Club did."  
  Copyright - Arnie at LFChistory.net ([email protected]) - researched from articles in Liverpool Mercury and Liverpool Echo from 1891-92. Images of documents from the David France collection.  
  Article links  
  Managers  
  Archives  
  We've got all the results from official games, appearance stats, goal stats and basically every conceivable statistic from 1892 to the present, every single line-up and substitutions!  
  Team News  
  Manchester United ended Liverpool's quest for a quadruple of trophies in Jurgen Klopp's final season after Amad Diallo's winner edged a thrilling FA Cup quarter-final 4-3 after extra-time.... more »  
  Virgil van Dijk says the intensity of Liverpool's bitter rivalry with Manchester United will make Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final a major test for his quadruple chasers.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp believes Mohamed Salah is ready to wreak more damage on Manchester United in Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final as the Egyptian gets back up to speed after a lengthy hamstring injury.... more »  
  Pep Guardiola said Manchester City survived a second-half "tsunami" from Liverpool to secure a 1-1 draw that leaves three sides separated by just one point at the top of the Premier League.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola face off for the final time in the Premier League on Sunday with the title on the line for two coaches who have defined an era in English football.... more »  
  Articles  
  The story of the Liverpool FC crest  
  The crest of Liverpool Football Club is known worldwide. One may wonder how it came into existence and developed through time to become what it is today. One of the club's followers, who calls himself "Ajjam" has studied the history of the crest and agreed to share it with us. I still possess the plaque which is a cheap and a worn piece of plastic, yet it is also to me a priceless, sentimental piece of personal history. It is a version of our club crest that was used from around 1970 until our centenary in 1992. I have never seen a version of our club crest of the time that exactly matched this plaque, so it was a little bit of a mystery as to how “official” it was. My search into this matter would provide me with one surprising discovery that would bring a smile to my face. More on that later on... This is the first crest that appeared on our team shirts: a Liver bird, on a pedestal or perch of some sort, in an “elegant” shield. Now here’s the thing: this crest does not appear on our team shirts until post-WWII. Here it is on this team pic from the 1953-1954 season. So what did the original crest look like and how many were there before the 1950s? Was it simple or elaborate? Was it in a shield of some sort or on its own? Did it look like the one used by Liverpool Council? (which has recently changed to a simpler style).  
  What use was there for the Liverpool club crest before it started to appear on our team shirts? Was it used on official documents, stamps or seals, pennants, if anything? Was there any merchandise or official club clothing with it on? I wanted to fill that 50-year gap in my – or our – knowledge. A Liverpool crest of some kind is first mentioned by reported Field Sport on 19 September 1892 in Liverpool's inaugural season. "A new man - beg pardon, a flag - floated on the old staff, bearing the letters, L.F.A. surmounted with the liver. Right proudly did it wave over the field of battle and seemed to beam on its patrons with a hopeful smile.“  
  The club crest, as you may very well know, is based upon the city's coat of arms where the Liverbird is prominent. The Liver bird is a subject in itself, and is essential to our crest's history. To keep that brief, the following text and image are taken from The Heraldry of the World web site:  
  "The arms were granted in 1797 and show a cormorant with a piece of seaweed in its beak. The cormorant also appears on the crest. The supporters are a Triton and Neptune, the God of the sea. They hold banners with the cormorant and a ship. The arms shows the importance of the sea to the city of Liverpool. The cormorant is often referred to as the Liver Bird, and is used widely in the city. Liverpool was founded in 1207 by King John. He needed a new port to ship his troops to Ireland and to control the Irish Sea. The new town adopted King John's seal as its own. The seal showed the eagle of St John holding a sprig of broom in its beak. The broom, or planta genista was the symbol of the royal house of the Plantagenets. In 1644 the seal was lost and a new seal was made. For some strange reason the eagle was replaced by a cormorant, a more familiar bird in the area. It is likely that the artist mistook the eagle for a cormorant. The piece of broom was replaced by a piece of seaweed. The cormorant became later known as a mythical liver bird. The motto can be translated as "God has bestowed these blessings on us", and is taken from Virgil."  
  Other translations I have seen of the motto DEUS NOBIS HÆC OTIA FECIT is "God has given us this tranquillity" or "God hath granted us this ease." It's apparently taken from Virgil's epilogue (Epilogue 1,6) and, in context, is a eulogy of the idyllic country life.  
  Above could be the first club crest. This is an image of a medal that was given to Tom Robertson when he won the League title with Liverpool in 1901.  
  The Liver bird is at the forefront on Liverpool's banner from the 1921-1922 championship season: Text with picture: "To-day we are able to give an exclusive picture of the Liverpool Football Club's new flag. The old one has become torn and tattered in the exigencies of the service and was more like a big shirt, the tale of which was told and the "tail" shredded. The new flag tells the world at large that Liverpool were champions last season and on two other occasions. There is quite a prospect that the flag will have to be brought down and another honour added to it as the result of this season's work. In between the three, how would the words "Winners of the English Cup 1922-23" fit? Very well, we think."  
  Above is a club crest used on the cover of Liverpool FC's programmes from September 1935 in the first season after Everton and Liverpool stopped sharing the programme. The ‘break’ that WWII imposed upon the official league programme of fixtures, from 1939-1946, seems also to have been when the club crest first changed, but I have not been able to pin down exactly when. What I have found out is that it appears to have been a reluctant change. It seems that the City Council either refused to give continued permission for the city’s crest to be used or perhaps permission may have never been given in the first place. I glean this from the fact that on 13 December 1961, The Liverpool Echo reported that Liverpool City Council had turned down a request from Liverpool FC to use the city's Coat of Arms as its club crest. It was turned down by the "Finance and General Purposes Committee" before the decision was confirmed at a full Council meeting. The Club directors were reported to be "surprised and disappointed" at not being allowed to follow the likes of Newcastle United (amongst others), who wore the "coat of arms of their municipality." The board felt that the club could do more for the city by wearing the Coat of Arms in games in England and abroad. The club crest became something other than the city's crest, with a life and development very much of its own.  
  The 1947 merchandise crest reminds one of a certain club crest that might make you want to spit, but it appears to have been our official club crest on programmes and documents until 1970 although it was still used by the club, in some regard or other, until 1974. One isolated use of it after that date was on the cover on the 1981 European Cup Final programme. Depictions of the subsequent crest, used from 1970 until 1992, varied considerably. During the 1970s in particular, differing versions appeared on official tickets, documents and programs, overlapping each other's usage. One particular depiction of the crest though, found on club tickets as early as the 1972-73 season, appears on slightly later documents as a Registered Trade Mark, suggesting it was 'the one' (see the text under the crest at the bottom of the letter, below).  
  However, as the variations of the crest were all slight enough so that they could be described and therefore considered as 'the same' crest, they would have been protected under that same Trade Mark Registration. In other words, they were all official. This would perhaps partly explain the apparent 'laissez-faire' attitude of the club towards the various crest depictions that appeared and their inconsistent and over-lapping usage: So long as it was close enough to that design, it was OK. When checking the current state of words and images that are registered as Trade Marks by the club, I received my pleasant little surprise. I was not too surprised with what the club has currently registered (which you can check for yourself through the Intellectual Property Office web site), and indeed they still have one of the varieties of club crests used between 1970-92 registered. The pleasant surprise for me was which one. It was not the one that was so prevalent and appeared on official documents; nor any of the ones that appeared on club programmes; but the exact same crest as depicted on my old plastic plaque! Check it out for yourself: go to the IPO site and look for the Trade Mark under reference 1099121.  
  It is likely, although old records no longer exist to confirm this, that this was merely the last one of several Registered Trade Mark images in the 1970s, as whilst it should cover the various ones used, the Club probably registered more than one version in order to be safe. The others would have been left to expire over time and when the crest changed in 1992, the last one remaining registered by the club was kept current in order to continue to protect its interests, with regard to “retro” style clothing and other merchandise, such as replica kits with this crest on, from 1987-1992.  
  Examples of crests used from 1970-1978 (left), 1971-1979 and 1979 -1984 (right)  
  An end to the apparent division between the shirt and merchandise crests started to come about in 1987 when the shirt crest (aside) was altered to match the merchandise and ushered in the beginning of a more co-ordinated approach in the use of our club crest. This shirt crest still retains the Liver bird look that seems to have evolved over time on our shirts, probably because of the nature of embroidery. Our current Liver bird appears to have come about as a 'merger' between the printed or merchandised versions, and the appearance that a stitched or embossed design on the team shirts gave. When the crest was significantly altered for the 1992-93 season, to mark our club's centenary, this historic and symbol-ridden change led to a 1993 post-centenary version, with more symbolic changes, before the crest was changed to our current crest, c1999.  
  YNWA  
  Copyright - "Ajjam"  
  Archives  
  We've got all the results from official games, appearance stats, goal stats and basically every conceivable statistic from 1892 to the present, every single line-up and substitutions!  
  3 players score, Konate returns, Elliott assists 2 – Liverpool FC internationals  
  It was a busy final day of the international break for Liverpool, with three first-team players scoring – including another for unbeaten Dominik Szoboszlai.  
  The international break is now over and, unfortunately, the Reds did not come through unscathed after an ankle injury for Andy Robertson.  
  Robertson will undergo a scan upon his return to Merseyside, serving as the overriding negative in an otherwise positive fortnight for the squad.  
  He was one of 14 Liverpool players in action on Tuesday, but only lasted 37 minutes before being forced off – in a 1-0 loss to Northern Ireland that saw Conor Bradley score the winner and play 90 minutes.  
  Szoboszlai also netted for his country as he opened the scoring in a 2-0 win for Hungary over Kosovo, captaining the side in a role that saw him regularly drift to right-back.  
  The victory maintained his unbeaten record since taking the armband for Hungary, stretching to 14 games.  
  ?? Currently only Luis Díaz’s Colombia has a longer unbeaten run (21) in international football than Dominik Szoboszlai’s Hungary (14).  
  Only Luis Diaz‘s Colombia are on a longer unbeaten run in international football, per journalist Bence Bocsak, with that extended to 21 games with a 3-2 win over Romania.  
  Diaz played 67 minutes at the Wanda Metropolitano in Madrid, before being replaced by Rafael Santos Borre with his side 2-0 up.  
  Elsewhere, Joe Gomez made his second substitute appearance of the break for England, but played 80 minutes as he took over from the injured John Stones early into a 2-2 draw with Belgium.  
  Virgil van Dijk played his second 90 minutes in five days for the Netherlands, with Cody Gakpo coming off the bench for the final 15 minutes of a 2-1 loss to Germany.  
  Another centre-back, Ibrahima Konate, made his return from an injury layoff as he started and played the full 90 in France’s 3-2 win over Chile.  
  Alexis Mac Allister was more sensibly managed, coming off after an hour in Argentina’s 3-1 victory over Costa Rica – having scored to make it 2-1 minutes earlier.  
  Caoimhin Kelleher was unused as the Republic of Ireland suffered a 1-0 loss to Switzerland, courtesy of a goal from Xherdan Shaqiri.  
  There was heartbreak for Kostas Tsimikas as, after playing 120 minutes, Greece lost on penalties to Georgia as they missed out on a place at the Euros.  
  At youth level, Harvey Elliott again proved he has outgrown the England U21s, with two assists in a 7-0 thrashing of Luxembourg that also saw him pull off a ridiculous volleyed rabona pass.  
  Like Elliott, Jarell Quansah played the full 90 minutes as he helped keep a clean sheet, with Tyler Morton unused.  
  Finally, Kaide Gordon and Luke Chambers both started as England U20s beat the Czech Republic 3-1, the latter playing 90 minutes in a game that saw Bobby Clark miss out.  
  3 reasons Liverpool could have the advantage in Premier League title run-in  
  With the final international break of the season almost over, a 10-game shootout for the Premier League title is about to begin.  
  Just a single point separates Liverpool, Arsenal and Man City going into the final stages of what has been a thrilling title race thus far.  
  But who is best placed to go on and lift the trophy in May?  
  We’ve taken a look at three aspects that could have a big say in who wins the title and found that the Reds have plenty to be encouraged by heading into the run-in.  
  The fixture list  
  The first bit of good news for Liverpool here is that they could well take control of the title race immediately after the international break.  
  Should the Reds do their job by beating Brighton at Anfield on Sunday, they will be able to watch Man City host Arsenal later in the day knowing that a draw or a win for the hosts puts them in the driving seat with nine games remaining.  
  There is further reason for cheer as far as the fixture list is concerned, too.  
  Of the teams the three contenders have still to face, Liverpool’s opponents have picked up the fewest points per game (1.37) so far this season.  
  By this measure, City have the second-easiest schedule (1.52 PPG), while the leaders Arsenal have the most difficult (1.63 PPG).  
  In theory, that should mean Jurgen Klopp‘s men find it easier to pick up points in this most crucial period of the campaign.  
  The managers  
  Of course, this time of the season is as much about dealing with pressure as it is about proving how good a football team you are.  
  And so it is interesting to examine how the three managers have typically fared during past Premier League run-ins.  
  In Mikel Arteta’s four campaigns in charge, Arsenal have rarely finished well, averaging just 16.5 points from a possible 30 over the last 10 games.  
  Unsurprisingly, Guardiola has done much better, averaging 23.5 points over the same four-season period – a return that has earned him three Premier League titles.  
  However, it is Klopp who boasts the best record, having averaged 24 points while posting the best total of any of the three managers (26) on two separate occasions.  
  Should the German oversee another strong finish, as he has done even in forgettable campaigns such as 2020/21 and 2022/23, then Liverpool have a great chance.  
  European commitments  
  If there is any upside to Liverpool missing out on Champions League qualification last year, then perhaps they are about to experience it.  
  There may be no easy games in European competition, but there is no doubt that the Europa League offers more scope for rotation in between the coming Premier League fixtures.  
  And that is a luxury that neither Arsenal or City will have as they move into the latter stages of the far more demanding Champions League.  
  The Gunners have the distraction of a two-legged quarter-final tie against Bayern Munich coming up, while City face an equally daunting clash with Real Madrid.  
  And should both sides progress, their reward will be to meet each other in an all-English semi-final that can hardly aid their title hopes.  
  Liverpool, meanwhile, are heavy favourites for the Europa League, and will hope to show why in making an upcoming tie against Atalanta and then a potential semi against either Benfica or Marseille look straightforward.  
  FTFull Time AETAfter Extra Time LIVEThis is a live match. ETExtra Time HTHalf Time  
  Liverpool vs Sparta Prague. UEFA Europa League Round of 16.  
  Sparta Prague 1  
  Liverpool 6-1 Sparta Prague (agg 11-2): Jurgen Klopp's side ease into Europa League quarter-finals  
  Match report as Liverpool march into the Europa League's final eight with a ruthless showing against a woeful Sparta Prague at Anfield; seven minutes separated first-half goals by Darwin Nunez, Bobby Clark, Mo Salah and Cody Gakpo; Dominik Szoboszlai and Gakpo added goals after the break  
  Friday 15 March 2024 06:14, UK  
  Liverpool eased into the Europa League quarter-finals after thrashing Sparta Prague 6-1 at Anfield to win the tie 11-2 on aggregate.  
  Jurgen Klopp's side were ruthless despite leading 5-1 after the first leg, scoring four goals in seven first-half minutes to put the last-16 tie to bed, before Sparta Prague pulled one back through Velko Birmancevic.  
  Bobby Clark, 19, netted his first senior goal for Liverpool right after Darwin Nunez's seventh-minute opener. Mohamed Salah and Cody Gakpo then added two more in quick succession to make it 4-0 inside 15 minutes.  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Jay Bothroyd blasted Sparta Prague's performance against Liverpool as embarrassing  
  Dominik Szoboszlai's deflected effort, three minutes into the second half, was quickly followed by Gakpo's second as Liverpool punished a woeful Sparta Prague performance to claim their biggest aggregate win in Europe.  
  Liverpool will learn their next opponents in Friday's draw before heading to Old Trafford on Sunday to face Man Utd in the FA Cup quarter-finals, hoping to keep their quadruple dream alive.  
  How Liverpool eased into the last eight  
  Twitter This content is provided by Twitter, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Twitter cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Twitter cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Twitter cookies for this session only.  
  Klopp's side were already virtually guaranteed a quarter-final place but four goals in the opening 13-and-a-half minutes started the rout.  
  They are only the second team in major UEFA competition history to score four inside the first 14 minutes, after Chelsea against Jeunesse Hautcharage in the Cup Winners' Cup in 1971-72.  
  Also See:  
  Nunez opened the scoring with a clinical strike from 16 yards with the best of the quartet but that was forgotten in the blur of goals which followed as Sparta's players were left chasing shadows and questioning their own abilities.  
  Liverpool team news  
  Mohamed Salah made his first start for Liverpool since returning from a short spell out injured.  
  Bobby Clark, Andy Robertson and Cody Gakpo also came into the team.  
  But instead of keeping it tight, the visitors continued to play out from the back and when Salah charged down Krejci, the rebound fell kindly for Clark to slot under goalkeeper Peter Vindahl.  
  Salah enjoyed a fine return to the starting line-up after a short spell out injured, setting up teenager Clark for his first senior Liverpool goal on his European debut after winning the ball deep in opposition territory before scoring his 20th goal of the season.  
  The favour was returned when Clark muscled Jaroslav Zleny off the ball 25 yards out to tee up Salah to curl home his milestone goal, Gakpo then turning home the Egyptian's cross from close range after more sloppy defending.  
  Twitter This content is provided by Twitter, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Twitter cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Twitter cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Twitter cookies for this session only.  
  It was the seventh-successive season Salah has reached the milestone and the first time any Liverpool player in their 132-year history had achieved such a feat.  
  Salah then provided his second assist of the night as he teed up Gakpo to finish off his cross from close-range.  
  When the fourth goal went in, captain Ladislav Krejci, whose mistake had led to the second, called a crisis meeting in the middle of the pitch.  
  It all seemed a bit futile as even though their task at kick-off was an improbable one, their defending was so naive it bordered on the embarrassing.  
  Birmancevic held off the backtracking Wataru Endo to poke a shot past Caoimhin Kelleher just before the break but it was a brief respite as, after Nunez, Endo and Joe Gomez were replaced during the interval.  
  Midfielder Szoboszlai, set up by Salah, added the fifth two minutes into the second half after a fortunate deflection, having assisted Nunez for his 17th goal of the season and his sixth in as many games.  
  Twitter This content is provided by Twitter, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Twitter cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Twitter cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Twitter cookies for this session only.  
  When Sparta Prague goalkeeper Vindahl's punch at a corner only reached the edge of the area Harvey Elliott fired in a low shot which Gakpo touched in with a cheeky backheel for his second.  
  The Netherlands international wasted a glorious chance for his hat-trick, blazing over with only the goalkeeper to beat and despite taking his tally to 13 for the season, he is unlikely to start at the weekend.  
  Klopp's preferred front three of Salah, Nunez and Luis Diaz will have 48 goals between them and the team as a whole have 117 goals in 45 games.  
  They will fancy their chances against a United side who have kept just four clean sheets - three of which came against mid-tabled League One opponents Wigan and Premier League strugglers Nottingham Forest and Everton - since they became the only club in the last 55 matches to prevent Liverpool scoring in a goalless draw in December.  
  Klopp: Salah's desire for goals will never stop  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Jurgen Klopp was delighted with Liverpool's 6-1 win against Sparta Prague in the Europa League and described it as a 'really strange game' as the hosts were 4-0 up after the first 15 minutes.  
  Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said:  
  "In seven years together with him, the one problem we never had was consistency. Mo is just delivering and delivering and delivering, his desire doesn't stop, his quality is there and his desire to score doesn't stop.  
  "He has improved in so many aspects since he started here. That's how it is, he will not stop.  
  "I'm less surprised than maybe some others, I thought it had already happened to be honest but he was injured for a while, otherwise he would have done it in January or February.  
  "But great, very good, and great to have him back.  
  "It was not the plan he plays 90 minutes, the plan was to take him off when we brought on Mateusz (Musialowski) but Bobby Clark said (he felt something) and Mo is experienced enough that he recovers during the game.  
  "I told him not to defend any more - I never told a player that before."  
  On the performance, Klopp said: "The boys started the game incredibly well and 4-0 up in 14 minutes is really strange.  
  "From then on it became a strange game because how can you now stay greedy?"  
  Sparta boss: Liverpool should be playing in Champions League  
  Sparta boss Brian Prisk said:  
  "Big respect to Liverpool how they played these two legs, the level from Sparta to Liverpool is massive. It is a completely different level.  
  "We never faced something like this. Liverpool is a Champions League team and they should be playing in the Champions League."  
  Bradley: We want to win everything for Klopp  
  Liverpool full-back Conor Bradley told TNT Sports: "A very good night. We started the game very well obviously, to get the four goals after 10 or 11 minutes was really good and it was a really professional performance.  
  "When we found out the news about the manager it was hard to take. He is the only manager I've really known at this club. So for him to be leaving is sad, but now we just want to win every trophy we can for him and give him the best send-off we can.  
  Asked about a quadruple: "No we don't think about it, We just keep ourselves focused on the next game. Keep playing well, keep the performances high and keep going.  
  Asked about Bobby Clark's first goal: "I know for me scoring my first goal was a special feeling so I am sure it is the same for him. It was a great finish and I thought he played brilliantly. I am buzzing for him."  
  Liverpool are in FA Cup quarter-final action before the international break as they go to Old Trafford to face rivals Manchester United on Sunday; kick-off 3.30pm.  
  Jurgen Klopp's side then resume their Premier League title challenge on March 31 as they host Brighton; kick-off 2pm, live on Sky Sports.  
  You can now start receiving messages and alerts for the latest breaking sports news, analysis, in-depth features and videos from our dedicated WhatsApp channel!  
  Accessibility links  
  Europa League quarter-finals draw: Liverpool meet Atalanta and West Ham face Bayer Leverkusen  
  Last updated on 15 March 202415 March 2024.From the section European Football858  
  Liverpool will play Atalanta in the quarter-finals of the Europa League with West Ham set to face Bayer Leverkusen.  
  Italian rivals AC Milan and Roma meet for a place in the semi-finals, while Portuguese club Benfica take on Ligue 1 side Marseille.  
  Meanwhile, Aston Villa have been drawn against Lille in the quarter-finals of the Conference League.  
  The first legs take place on 11 April, with the second legs on 18 April.  
  If Liverpool come through their tie, they will face either Benfica or Marseille in the semi-finals, with West Ham meeting AC Milan or Roma if they find a way past Bundesliga leaders Leverkusen.  
  The semi-finals are scheduled for 2 May and 9 May.  
  Dublin Arena in the Republic of Ireland hosts this season's final on Wednesday, 22 May.  
  Europa League quarter-finals draw  
  AC Milan v Roma  
  Liverpool v Atalanta  
  Bayer Leverkusen v West Ham  
  Benfica v Marseille  
  Semi-finals draw  
  Benfica or Marseille v Liverpool or Atalanta  
  AC Milan or Roma v Bayer Leverkusen or West Ham  
  Liverpool still have the potential to pick up four trophies in Jurgen Klopp's final season in charge after they beat Czech club Sparta Prague 11-2 on aggregate in the last 16, winning 6-1 in the second leg at Anfield on Thursday.  
  Atalanta and Liverpool have met on two previous occasions, with the Reds winning 5-0 in Italy and losing 2-0 at home during the group stage of the Champions League in 2020-21.  
  The Italian club are sixth in Serie A and are yet to lose in the Europa League this season, winning five and drawing three.  
  Klopp described the draw as "tricky".  
  "We played there [in 2020] - not that I watched them since then 500 times, but it's still the same manager, pretty sure a similar structure, so it means uncomfortable to play against, very well organised," added Klopp.  
  "It is a quarter-final - I didn't expect any easy opponent. I have a lot of respect for what Atalanta is doing in the last years, very consistent."  
  West Ham, who won the Europa Conference League last season, go up against Bayer Leverkusen for the first time.  
  The Hammers saw off German opposition in the last 16, beating Freiburg 5-1 on aggregate, coming back from a 1-0 loss in the first leg with a 5-0 win at London Stadium.  
  They have a record of six wins, six defeats and one draw when facing German teams in Europe.  
  Leverkusen are 10 points clear of second-placed Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga, and have not lost a match in all competitions this season, winning 32 and drawing five.  
  Aston Villa reached the last eight of a major European competition for the first time since 1998 with a 4-0 aggregate win against Dutch giants Ajax in the Conference League.  
  Villa have never previously met Lille but have picked up two wins, two losses and two draws when facing French opposition in European competition.  
  Club Bruges meet PAOK, Olympiacos face Fenerbahce and Viktoria Plzen have been drawn against Fiorentina.  
  If Villa come through their quarter-final tie they take on either Olympiacos or Fenerbahce in the semi-finals.  
  The 2023-24 Europa Conference League final will be staged at the AEK Arena in Athens, Greece, on Wednesday, 29 May.  
  Conference League quarter-finals draw  
  Club Bruges v PAOK  
  Olympiacos v Fenerbahce  
  Aston Villa v Lille  
  Viktoria Plzen v Fiorentina  
  Semi-finals draw  
  Aston Villa or Lille v Olympiacos or Fenerbahce  
  Viktoria Plzen or Fiorentina v Club Bruges or PAOK  
  Victories for West Ham and Aston Villa in the Europa League and Conference respectively on Thursday have boosted England's hopes of securing five places in next season's revamped Champions League.  
  The group stage of 2024-25 Champions League will be re-structured to feature 36 clubs rather than 32, opening up two extra places for Europe's best-performing leagues in Uefa competitions.  
  Prior to Thursday's games, Italy and Germany were first and second in Uefa's coefficient table with England third.  
  West Ham beat German club Freiburg to reach the quarter-finals while Villa came through their tie with Ajax.  
  England remain behind Germany but have five clubs remaining across the three European competitions - Champions League, Europa League and Conference League - with three German teams still involved.  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by For you, at 12:29 15 MarFor you  
  12:29 15 Mar  
  As a West Ham fan, just happy to be in the draw. Anything beyond that, even better! As always: 'Up the Hammers!'  
  243  
  7  
  H  
  Reply posted by Hammersfanno1, at 12:34 15 MarHammersfanno1  
  12:34 15 Mar  
  to For you  
  "  
  As a West Ham fan, just happy to be in the draw.Anything beyond that, even better!As always: 'Up the Hammers!'  
  "  
  Hammersfanno1 replied:  
  That's part of the problem. We need to aspire to bubbles that don't fade and die!  
  30  
  79  
  More replies (25)  
  S  
  Comment posted by SlavaUkraini, at 12:21 15 MarSlavaUkraini  
  12:21 15 Mar  
  That’s as good a quarter final and semi final draw Liverpool could have hoped for!.  
  223  
  16  
  J  
  Reply posted by J-Dizzle, at 12:35 15 MarJ-Dizzle  
  12:35 15 Mar  
  to SlavaUkraini  
  "  
  That’s as good a quarter final and semi final draw Liverpool could have hoped for!.  
  "  
  J-Dizzle replied:  
  And a possible repeat of Istanbul 05 in the final.  
  83  
  More replies (55)  
  J  
  Comment posted by JimmyG100 , at 12:26 15 MarJimmyG100  
  12:26 15 Mar  
  Weird that Leverkusen are dominating the bundesliga but nearly went out to a bunch of randos from Azerbaijan last night. The Irons have a chance.  
  153  
  16  
  I  
  Reply posted by inoffapost, at 12:36 15 Marinoffapost  
  12:36 15 Mar  
  to JimmyG100  
  "  
  Weird that Leverkusen are dominating the bundesliga but nearly went out to a bunch of randos from Azerbaijan last night. The Irons have a chance.  
  "  
  inoffapost replied:  
  Watched their game live. They missed 4 chances in the first 10 minutes and had over 20 chances through the game and yet didn't look like scoring somehow. Even a dodgy sending off decision,only a yellow in my view at best didn't help. Qarabag got their second goal with 10 men! Taylor played10 extra minutes when only 6 were indicated. Qarabag can feel 'done' in my opinion. They are beatable.  
  85  
  12  
  More replies (17)  
  L  
  Comment posted by Lets Agree To Disagree, at 12:23 15 MarLets Agree To Disagree  
  12:23 15 Mar  
  Decent draw for Liverpool in both the QF and SF. Added bonus, if they reach the final, they will be the ‘home’ team and so play in their famous red strip. Happy with this draw.  
  153  
  39  
  J  
  Reply posted by Jack, at 12:27 15 MarJack  
  12:27 15 Mar  
  to Lets Agree To Disagree  
  "  
  Decent draw for Liverpool in both the QF and SF. Added bonus, if they reach the final, they will be the ‘home’ team and so play in their famous red strip.Happy with this draw.  
  "  
  Jack replied:  
  Could have been worse. I'll happily take this draw all day long 👍🏻  
  40  
  More replies (12)  
  M  
  Comment posted by motr1912, at 12:25 15 Marmotr1912  
  12:25 15 Mar  
  Seville had never lost in the Europa League until they played West Ham. We have to believe!!!!  
  116  
  6  
  F  
  Reply posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 13:04 15 MarFan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  13:04 15 Mar  
  to motr1912  
  "  
  Seville had never lost in the Europa League until they played West Ham. We have to believe!!!!  
  "  
  Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd replied:  
  West Ham vs Bayer Leverkusen isn’t just a game to determine who plays in the Europa League semi final, it may also determine who ends up with a 5th Champions League place and the 2nd spot is a tight race between England and Germany.  
  66  
  1  
  More replies (13)  
  K  
  Comment posted by K-Dogg, at 12:22 15 MarK-Dogg  
  Not gonna lie, that's just about as good as it could have been for Liverpool.  
  108  
  13  
  F  
  Reply posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 12:42 15 MarFan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  12:42 15 Mar  
  to K-Dogg  
  "  
  Not gonna lie, that's just about as good as it could have been for Liverpool.  
  More replies (6)  
  S  
  Comment posted by Shaun BBC, at 12:21 15 MarShaun BBC  
  12:21 15 Mar  
  Both the Champions League and Europa draws couldn't have worked out much better for Liverpool.  
  13  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (9)  
  Comment posted by Blue Billion Pound Bottle Jobs, at 12:25 15 MarBlue Billion Pound Bottle Jobs  
  12:25 15 Mar  
  So, a Liverpool vs West Ham final is still on. West Ham have the harder path to Dublin though.  
  71  
  6  
  W  
  Reply posted by Waggstar, at 13:13 15 MarWaggstar  
  13:13 15 Mar  
  to Blue Billion Pound Bottle Jobs  
  "  
  So, a Liverpool vs West Ham final is still on. West Ham have the harder path to Dublin though.  
  "  
  Waggstar replied:  
  Yeah the Scousers can walk down the road and get on a ferry  
  126  
  More replies (16)  
  I  
  Comment posted by inoffapost, at 12:30 15 Marinoffapost  
  12:30 15 Mar  
  There are no easy draws at this stage of the competition. Happy with Leverkusen.They have tolose sometime so why not to West Ham. I watched their game with Qarabag live. They owe their place in the last eight to Anthony Taylor who played an extra 10 minutes instead of the 6 indicated allowing Leverkusen to get the 2 goals they needed. The sending off was also dodgy. They can be beaten for sure.  
  60  
  3  
  A  
  Reply posted by adam, at 12:56 15 Maradam  
  12:56 15 Mar  
  to inoffapost  
  "  
  There are no easy draws at this stage of the competition. Happy with Leverkusen.They have tolose sometime so why not to West Ham. I watched their game with Qarabag live. They owe their place in the last eight to Anthony Taylor who played an extra 10 minutes instead of the 6 indicated allowing Leverkusen to get the 2 goals they needed. The sending off was also dodgy. They can be beaten for sure.  
  42  
  Comment posted by 2008 the year football sank, at 12:21 15 Mar2008 the year football sank  
  12:21 15 Mar  
  As a Liverpool fan I'm please with that although no tie will be easy. West Ham have got a toughy, now we'll see how good Leverkusen are.  
  43  
  5  
  F  
  Reply posted by Funky Chunky Monkey, at 12:24 15 MarFunky Chunky Monkey  
  12:24 15 Mar  
  to 2008 the year football sank  
  "  
  As a Liverpool fan I'm please with that although no tie will be easy. West Ham have got a toughy, now we'll see how good Leverkusen are.  
  "  
  Funky Chunky Monkey replied:  
  They weren't very good last night, they were 4 minutes from going out to Qarabag.  
  25  
  6  
  More replies (5)  
  P  
  Comment posted by paul hirst, at 12:30 15 Marpaul hirst  
  12:30 15 Mar  
  Avoiding the two Italian giants, the Bundesliga league leaders and West Ham until a potential final in Dublin. That draw couldn't of worked out better for Klopp if he'd actually pulled out the balls himself.  
  43  
  7  
  S  
  Reply posted by SlavaUkraini, at 12:34 15 MarSlavaUkraini  
  12:34 15 Mar  
  to paul hirst  
  "  
  Avoiding the two Italian giants, the Bundesliga league leaders and West Ham until a potential final in Dublin. That draw couldn't of worked out better for Klopp if he'd actually pulled out the balls himself.  
  Reply posted by Ws, at 13:25 15 MarWs  
  Comment posted by Happyhammer, at 12:26 15 MarHappyhammer  
  12:26 15 Mar  
  COME ON YOU IRONS, let’s get to another final. The draw we have is good and that gives us the chance to make it all the way to Dublin. ⚒⚒⚒⚒⚒⚒⚒🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧🫧  
  9  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (4)  
  Comment posted by Hammersfanno1, at 12:37 15 MarHammersfanno1  
  12:37 15 Mar  
  Chin up fellow Hammers. Freiburg have only lost 6 games all season in the Bundesliga which suggests that the Bundesliga is not any great shakes. Bit like the Scottish Prem perhaps. We might have half a chance.  
  5  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (2)  
  Comment posted by KorBlimey Boris, at 12:33 15 MarKorBlimey Boris  
  12:33 15 Mar  
  Up the Hammers! Kudos & Paqueta with Bowen leading the charge… Steady ship with our Czech stars and French guards! Bring it on - COYI  
  6  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (1)  
  Comment posted by The Spin Doctor, at 12:25 15 MarThe Spin Doctor  
  12:25 15 Mar  
  Klopp and Liverpool given the easily possible path to win the one trophy that Klopp hasn’t at Liverpool.  
  35  
  13  
  Q  
  Reply posted by Quintessential Dichotomy, at 12:57 15 MarQuintessential Dichotomy  
  12:57 15 Mar  
  to The Spin Doctor  
  "  
  Klopp and Liverpool given the easily possible path to win the one trophy that Klopp hasn’t at Liverpool.  
  16  
  Comment posted by Brendan, at 13:08 15 MarBrendan  
  13:08 15 Mar  
  Liverpool fan here let's not get ahead of ourselves. There's a lot of football to be played here. Atalanta will be no pushovers. These will be 2 difficult and draining games. one game at a time, play what's in front of you. This is going to be a difficult run in. I hate talk of a quadruple, we've been there before. Talk about the next opponent. Win the next game, whoever it is. YNWA!!!  
  26  
  5  
  J  
  Reply posted by Juststanninhere, at 13:14 15 MarJuststanninhere  
  13:14 15 Mar  
  to Brendan  
  "  
  Liverpool fan herelet's not get ahead of ourselves. There's a lot of football to be played here. Atalanta will be no pushovers. These will be 2 difficult and draining games. one game at a time, play what's in front of you. This is going to be a difficult run in. I hate talk of a quadruple, we've been there before. Talk about the next opponent. Win the next game, whoever it is. YNWA!!!  
  "  
  Juststanninhere replied:  
  Nearly every cliche in the book there though you missed our " it's a game of two halves"!  
  14  
  10  
  More replies (2)  
  R  
  Comment posted by rumblef, at 12:22 15 Marrumblef  
  Reply posted by Chickletto, at 13:21 15 MarChickletto  
  Comment posted by Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd, at 12:23 15 MarFan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  12:23 15 Mar  
  Yesterday evening, as Bayer Leverkusen sealed their great comeback win, I turned to a mate and said “I have a very strong feeling that this team will be facing West Ham in the QF”  
  Will be a great match nevertheless.  
  25  
  6  
  J  
  Reply posted by JM, at 15:36 15 MarJM  
  15:36 15 Mar  
  to Fan Of Whoever Plays Man Utd  
  "  
  Yesterday evening, as Bayer Leverkusen sealed their great comeback win, I turned to a mate and said “I have a very strong feeling that this team will be facing West Ham in the QF”Will be a great match nevertheless.  
  "  
  JM replied:  
  I think people are underestimating Benfica.  
  They’re currently 6 points ahead of Porto, the team that nearly knocked Arsenal out a few nights ago…..  
  8  
  3  
  More replies (1)  
  W  
  Comment posted by Winners And Sinners, at 12:24 15 MarWinners And Sinners  
  12:24 15 Mar  
  Good draw for Liverpool, tough draw for West Ham. But that’s how the cookie crumbles as they say.  
  20  
  5  
  W  
  Reply posted by Ws, at 13:27 15 MarWs  
  13:27 15 Mar  
  to Winners And Sinners  
  "  
  Good draw for Liverpool, tough draw for West Ham. But that’s how the cookie crumbles as they say.  
  "  
  Ws replied:  
  Liverpool Playing as they are, might even go further  
  Top stories  
  Listen to BBC Radio 5 Live and follow live text updates as Chelsea face Ajax in the Women's Champions League quarter-final second leg at Stamford Bridge.  
  Manchester City defender and former England captain Steph Houghton will retire at the end of the current Women's Super League season.  
  We've launched three separate channels - BBC Sport, BBC Football and BBC Cricket - to give you another way to stay up to date.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Accessibility links  
  Liverpool: Reds fans awarded damages by Uefa over Champions League final chaos  
  Last updated on 22 March 202422 March 2024.From the section Liverpool  
  A group of Liverpool fans have been awarded compensation by Uefa after claiming they were injured or left with psychological trauma in chaotic scenes at the 2022 Champions League final.  
  Fans were penned in and sprayed with tear gas outside the Stade de France as kick-off was delayed by 36 minutes.  
  On Friday, Uefa said it had agreed "a full and final settlement" with fans.  
  The agreement relates to Liverpool supporters - previous reported as a total of 1,450 claimants - who were represented in a lawsuit by global law company Pogust Goodhead and Liverpool law firm Bingham Long.  
  Both Uefa and the legal teams said the amount of compensation received by the fans would remain confidential.  
  The supporters had "accepted" and "welcomed" the offer, said their legal firms.  
  Liverpool played Real Madrid in May 2022 for the prize of being crowned European champions.  
  Many Reds fans spoke of long queues in the hours leading up to the game, which Liverpool went on to lose 1-0, and a heavy-handed police response to the build-up of supporters unable to enter the Stade de France.  
  Fans were tear-gassed by police, while also being attacked and robbed by local people allowed to congregate nearby.  
  Uefa and French authorities initially blamed ticketless fans for the events.  
  In February 2023, the independent report announced it had found Uefa responsible for "chaotic scenes" which "almost led to disaster".  
  The report drew parallels with the Hillsborough disaster in 1989, when 97 Liverpool supporters died at their side's FA Cup semi-final tie with Nottingham Forest after being crushed because of overcrowding.  
  "The parties have agreed the terms of this statement, but that the terms of the settlement will otherwise remain confidential," said Uefa, which organises Champions League matches as the governing body of European football.  
  "The settlement agreement has been made without any admission of liability.  
  "Uefa is pleased to have reached a common position which it is hoped provides closure for the fans."  
  Our coverage of Liverpool is bigger and better than ever before - here's everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment  
  Top stories  
  Listen to BBC Radio 5 Live and follow live text updates as Chelsea face Ajax in the Women's Champions League quarter-final second leg at Stamford Bridge.  
  Manchester City defender and former England captain Steph Houghton will retire at the end of the current Women's Super League season.  
  We've launched three separate channels - BBC Sport, BBC Football and BBC Cricket - to give you another way to stay up to date.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Accessibility links  
  Sven-Goran Eriksson: Liverpool Legends manager role 'absolutely beautiful' for ex-England boss  
  Last updated on 23 March 202423 March 2024.From the section Liverpool  
  Ex-England boss Sven-Goran Eriksson said it was "absolutely beautiful" to fulfil his dream of managing Liverpool.  
  The 76-year-old helped lead a Liverpool Legends team which beat an Ajax Legends side 4-2 at Anfield on Saturday.  
  Swede Eriksson, who is a lifelong Liverpool fan, disclosed his terminal cancer diagnosis in January.  
  "That will be a huge memory in life," said Eriksson, who received a standing ovation when he emerged from the tunnel just before the teams.  
  "Absolutely beautiful."  
  There was a rendition of You'll Never Walk Alone before kick-off and Eriksson was in the Reds dugout along with a management team of former Liverpool greats Ian Rush, John Barnes and John Aldridge.  
  A Liverpool team including former captain Steven Gerrard came back from 2-0 to win, with Gregory Vignal, Nabil El Zhar, Djibril Cisse and Fernando Torres scoring.  
  Eriksson and the players were also applauded when they walked around the pitch following the final whistle.  
  "To sit on the bench for Liverpool, that's been my dream my whole life. Now it happened, and it was a beautiful day in all meanings," added the Swede.  
  "The crowd, the game, the players, everything, fantastic, and thank you to Liverpool for giving me this opportunity, to invite me for such an important game - it's not points, but the importance of the game is incredible.  
  "It was full of emotions, tears coming. It's been my dream club all my life - even when I had England, I also supported Liverpool, but I couldn't say it at that time.  
  "It's a good finish, to finish with Liverpool, it can't be much better than that."  
  Eriksson was the first foreign coach to manage England, taking over in 2001 before guiding the side to the quarter-finals of the 2002 and 2006 World Cups, as well as the last eight of the 2004 European Championships during his five-year tenure.  
  He won the Uefa Cup with Gothenburg and the European Cup Winners' Cup with Lazio, who he also led to the Serie A title during a long and successful management career, which included spells at Manchester City and Leicester City.  
  Eriksson also met current Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp before the game.  
  "Sven being here was very special," said Gerrard, who played for England under Eriksson.  
  "As soon as I knew he was going to be the gaffer today, I couldn't wait to come and play for him one more time."  
  Our coverage of Liverpool is bigger and better than ever before - here's everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment  
  Top stories  
  Listen to BBC Radio 5 Live and follow live text updates as Chelsea face Ajax in the Women's Champions League quarter-final second leg at Stamford Bridge.  
  Manchester City defender and former England captain Steph Houghton will retire at the end of the current Women's Super League season.  
  We've launched three separate channels - BBC Sport, BBC Football and BBC Cricket - to give you another way to stay up to date.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Thank you for registering  
  Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in  
  Liverpool given Andy Robertson injury update after Scotland friendly scare  
  Robertson missed almost three months of the season due to a shoulder injury earlier this campaign  
  Article bookmarked  
  Sign up to Miguel Delaney’s Reading the Game newsletter sent straight to your inbox for free  
  Sign up to Miguel’s Delaney’s free weekly newsletter  
  Please enter a valid email address  
  Please enter a valid email address  
  SIGN UP  
  I would like to be emailed about offers, events and updates from The Independent. Read our privacy notice  
  Thanks for signing up to the Football email  
  {{ #verifyErrors }}{{ message }}{{ /verifyErrors }}{{ ^verifyErrors }}Something went wrong. Please try again later{{ /verifyErrors }}  
  Liverpool could be without left-back Andy Robertson for the start of the Premier League title run-in after the Scotland captain was forced off against Northern Ireland on Tuesday night with an ankle injury.  
  Robertson tried to continue but was substituted shortly before Liverpool team-mate Conor Bradley scored the only goal of the game at Hampden.  
  Robertson was sidelined for almost three months earlier this season due to a shoulder injury picked up in a defeat in Spain during the October international break.  
  He looked dejected as he was brought off against Northern Ireland, with Liverpool entering a crucial stage of the season under Jurgen Klopp and with the Euros only 11 weeks away.  
  Scotland manager Clarke was hopeful Robertson had not suffered another lengthy injury. "He’s just come off the pitch, let the injury take its course," he said. "He’ll go back to his club and they’ll assess it and hopefully it’s not too serious."  
  Liverpool host Brighton on Sunday as they return to Premier League action, before title rivals Manchester City face Arsenal later that afternoon.  
  The Reds will then play Sheffield United at home in midweek before travelling to Old Trafford to face Manchester United, who knocked Klopp’s side out of the FA Cup earlier this month.  
  Join our commenting forum  
  Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies  
  Subscribe to Independent Premium to bookmark this article  
  Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.  
  Thank you for registering  
  Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in  
  Atalanta respond to rumours Teun Koopmeiners could leave to join Liverpool or Juventus  
  Tom OlverPublished Mar 27, 2024, 4:03pm|Updated Mar 27, 2024, 4:14pm  
  Share this with  
  Atalanta chief Luca Percassi has poured cold water on speculation linking Teun Koopmeiners with Liverpool and Juventus and insists the midfielder has never asked to be sold.  
  Koopmeiners is having a phenomenal season with Atalanta, racking up ten goals and three assists in Serie A, and has fast become one of the most sought-after players in Italian football.  
  In Europe’s top five leagues, the 26-year-old is part of an elite club of just two players to reach double figures from midfield over the last two seasons, along with Manchester City sensation Phil Foden.  
  Juventus have been credited with a strong interest in Koopmeiners and the Dutchman’s eye-catching performance at the Allianz Stadium before the international break, in which he scored twice in a 2-2 draw, convinced the Turin giants he was the real deal.  
  Speaking to De Telegraaf earlier this month, Koopmeiners fuelled rumours of a possible move and claimed he had informed Atalanta of his desire to leave at the end of the season.  
  ‘Last year there was concrete interest from Napoli. However, in the end the two clubs did not find an agreement. I told Atalanta that in the coming summer I want to move,’ Koopmeiners told the Dutch newspaper.  
  ‘But something really interesting must present itself to leave Bergamo.  
  ‘My fiancée and I are having a great time in Italy, but for some clubs in England I could even bear the rainy days there.  
  ‘I hope options present themselves so I can think about it.’  
  Koopmeiners, capped 21 times by the Netherlands national team, said he hoped Atalanta were able to attract a ‘good fee’ from his sale in the future.  
  ‘I hope Atalanta gets a good fee for me because I had a wonderful time in Bergamo,’ he added.  
  ‘I would be lying if I said i didn’t hear the news about the interest from Juventus and Premier League clubs have shown to me.’  
  Atalanta director Percassi has now weighed in and played down speculation that Koopmeiners could be on the move, denying the Dutchman’s suggestion that he had requested to be sold.  
  ‘This club is solid and does not need to sell,’ he told L’Eco di Bergamo.  
  ‘Koopmeiners has not been sold to Juventus, nor anyone else. In fact, he never asked us to be sold.’  
  Recent reports indicated that Atalanta could be prepared to do business with the likes of Liverpool or Juve should they receive an offer of around €50-60million (£43-51m) in the summer.  
  The former AZ Alkmaar midfielder has over three years remaining on his current contract in Bergamo, though, and it appears Atalanta are in no hurry to cash in on their prized possession.  
  FeatureThe biggest wins in Liverpool's history  
  On this day in 1986, the joint-second-biggest win in Liverpool's history was recorded.  
  Kenny Dalglish’s Reds thrashed Fulham 10-0 in a League Cup second-round tie at Anfield to equal the scoreline achieved by Bill Shankly’s side against Dundalk 17 years earlier.  
  On the 36th anniversary of the victory over Fulham, here we look back at the club’s largest wins…  
  Liverpool 11-0 Stromsgodset (September 17, 1974)  
  Under new manager Bob Paisley, Liverpool ruthlessly dismantled Norwegian amateurs Stromsgodset to post the club’s biggest victory and a record that has now stood for close to 50 years.  
  This UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup first-round first leg at Anfield was 5-0 at half-time, with Alec Lindsay’s early penalty being added to by a brace by Phil Boersma and goals from Phil Thompson and Steve Heighway.  
  Indeed, such was the Reds’ overwhelming dominance, nine of their starting XI finished the match with at least one goal to their name, the only exceptions being Ray Clemence and Brian Hall.  
  A flourish of three goals inside the final five minutes saw Paisley’s team break new ground.  
  “In the second half I was confused about all the goals,” Thompson said. “I even had a chat with Emlyn Hughes to try to work out what the score was.”  
  Liverpool 10-0 Dundalk (September 16, 1969)  
  This European Fairs Cup first-round first leg saw a Liverpool team led by Shankly rout Dundalk at Anfield.  
  The part-time Irish visitors’ night got off to an inauspicious start when Lindsay headed in the opener inside the first minute, and it was 5-0 by the break.  
  Despite Shankly’s decision to rest Roger Hunt and Ian St John, the Reds would plunder another five second-half goals in front of a shade more than 32,000 supporters – one of whom was particularly captivated by the experience.  
  Future manager Gerard Houllier stood on the Kop that evening alongside his friend Patrice Bergues who, three decades on, would be his assistant at Anfield.  
  “What impressed me first of all was the atmosphere inside the stadium,” Houllier marvelled. “We were on the Kop, and it was fantastic to see the unconditioned support of the fans.”  
  Liverpool 10-0 Fulham (September 23, 1986)  
  Fresh from winning the league and FA Cup double the season before, Liverpool underlined their determination to reclaim the League Cup with a second-round demolition of Fulham.  
  Steve McMahon scored four times and missed a penalty as the Third Division visitors were beaten heavily in this first leg at Anfield.  
  It was 2-0 by the 10th minute thanks to Ian Rush and John Wark, and Ronnie Whelan made it three shortly before the half-hour mark.  
  McMahon notched his first of the evening on the stroke of half-time, then grabbed his second after Wark had done so. He spurned the chance to get his hat-trick by hitting the crossbar from the spot but, three minutes later, increased Liverpool’s lead to seven.  
  Further strikes from Rush, McMahon and Steve Nicol ensured that Dalglish’s side achieved the club’s biggest victory in domestic competition – a record that remains intact 36 years later.  
  Liverpool 10-1 Oulun Palloseura (October 1, 1980)  
  Having been held to a 1-1 draw in the first leg of this European Cup first-round tie, Liverpool had work to do against Oulun Palloseura at Anfield.  
  ‘Job done’ would be an understated way of describing what happened next.  
  Graeme Souness and Terry McDermott each netted hat-tricks as the Finnish outfit were blown away by Paisley’s Reds, who would go on to lift the European Cup for the third time in five seasons by defeating Real Madrid in the final.  
  This result does not stand alone as the club’s fourth-largest win, however – Liverpool also beat Rotherham Town 10-1 back in 1896.  
  Liverpool 9-0 Crystal Palace (September 12, 1989)  
  An unbeaten start on the journey to top-flight title No.18 was maintained in emphatic fashion as Crystal Palace were hammered at Anfield.  
  Newly promoted Palace were only three down at half-time to Dalglish’s future champions, with Nicol, McMahon and Rush netting.  
  The Reds pressed down on the accelerator after the interval. John Aldridge marked his final appearance for the club by slotting home a penalty, while eight different players got goals and there was a symmetry to the scoresheet as Nicol completed the rout in the last minute.  
  Palace would famously gain revenge by edging a thrilling FA Cup semi-final 4-3 later in the season but this win – which equalled a 9-0 FA Cup result against Newtown in 1892 – remains the club’s joint-biggest top-flight victory.  
  Watch highlights of the 9-0 win  
  Liverpool 9-0 Bournemouth (August 27, 2022)  
  “Needed.”  
  Jürgen Klopp’s one-word description of the most recent entry on this list summed up the catharsis of Liverpool’s record Premier League win.  
  AFC Bournemouth arrived at Anfield five days after the Reds had put in a below-par display in losing to Manchester United and the will of Klopp’s side to bounce back was evident from the off.  
  Goals from Luis Diaz and Harvey Elliott put them 2-0 up inside the opening six minutes and they were five to the good by half-time, courtesy of Trent Alexander-Arnold, Roberto Firmino and Virgil van Dijk.  
  The Reds were unrelenting after the break and Firmino, Fabio Carvalho and Diaz added to an own goal to make the final score 9-0.  
  You have to accept cookies in order to view this content on our site.  
  Stoke City 0-8 Liverpool (November 29, 2000)  
  Liverpool’s record away victory was posted by Houllier’s treble-winning vintage of 2000-01.  
  A League Cup fourth-round trip to third-tier Stoke City could have proven a tricky tie but a Reds team captained by Robbie Fowler, who notched a hat-trick, made light work of the assignment.  
  Fowler rounded off the first-half scoring to put his side four goals to the good at the break, following strikes from Christian Ziege, Vladimir Smicer and Markus Babbel.  
  It was 6-0 by the 65th minute through Sami Hyypia and Danny Murphy, before Fowler completed his treble late on.  
  “Stoke probably felt the backlash of the last four or five weeks when we have played quite well without getting the rewards,” stated Houllier.  
  Liverpool 8-0 Besiktas (November 6, 2007)  
  Liverpool have won 8-0 at Anfield on five occasions, with the latest example coming 15 years ago as Rafael Benitez’s side registered what remains the joint-biggest victory in Champions League history.  
  Having collected just one point from their first three Group A fixtures, the pressure was on the Reds – beaten finalists just a few months earlier – with regard to their hopes of advancing to the last 16.  
  Avenging a 2-1 loss in Turkey a fortnight previous by defeating Besiktas at Anfield was a necessity for Benitez’s team.  
  And they did so in some style, inspired by a 24-minute hat-trick from Yossi Benayoun that straddled the half-time interval.  
  Six of Liverpool’s eight goals came in the second half. As well as Benayoun’s treble, Ryan Babel and Peter Crouch each scored twice and Steven Gerrard netted the other.  
  “We had the belief before that we could qualify and now we believe even more,” Benitez noted.  
  Liverpool duly beat Porto 4-1 and Marseille 4-0 to reach the knockout rounds, with their quest for a third Champions League final in four seasons eventually ending at the hands of Chelsea in the last four.  
  A Brief History of Liverpool Football Club  
  Liverpool Football Club, commonly known as Liverpool FC, is one of the most successful and popular football clubs in the world. They are one of the most supported clubs in the world and one of the highest-backed teams in the betting industry. If you, like many others, fancy a punt on Liverpool over the coming days, check out these betting sites UK.  
  The club was founded in 1892, and since then, it has achieved great success both domestically and internationally. Here is a brief history of Liverpool FC.  
  Liverpool was founded by John Houlding, a businessman and owner of Anfield Stadium. The club was initially named Everton FC and Athletic Grounds Ltd. However, a dispute between Houlding and the board of directors of Everton FC led to the formation of a new club, Liverpool FC, which would play at Anfield Stadium.  
  Liverpool played their first match on September 1, 1892, against Rotherham Town. The match ended in a 7-1 victory for Liverpool FC. The team’s first captain was John McCartney, and their first goal scorer was Malcolm McVean. In their first season, Liverpool FC finished in 8th place in the Second Division.  
  In the following years, Liverpool FC continued to play in the Second Division, but they struggled to gain promotion to the First Division. It wasn’t until 1904 that they finally achieved promotion to the First Division. However, they were relegated back to the Second Division just two seasons later.  
  In 1915, Liverpool won their first major trophy, the Football League Championship. However, their success was short-lived due to the outbreak of World War I, which led to the suspension of football in England.  
  After the war, Liverpool struggled to find success and were relegated to the Second Division in 1924. However, they were promoted back to the First Division in 1926 and won their second Football League Championship in 1929.  
  During the 1930s, Liverpool continued to be a successful club, but they were unable to win any major trophies. In 1947, Liverpool appointed their legendary manager, Bill Shankly. Shankly transformed the club and led them to their first FA Cup victory in 1965. In 1973, Liverpool FC won their first UEFA Cup, and in 1977, they won their first European Cup.  
  Under Shankly’s leadership, Liverpool FC became one of the dominant teams in English football. They won 3 Football League Championships, 2 FA Cups, 4 Charity Shields, 1 UEFA Cup, and 1 European Cup. Shankly retired in 1974, and his assistant, Bob Paisley, took over as manager.  
  Paisley continued Shankly’s success and led Liverpool FC to unprecedented success in the 1970s and 1980s. During his tenure as manager, Liverpool FC won 6 Football League Championships, 3 European Cups, 1 UEFA Cup, 3 League Cups, and 6 Charity Shields. Paisley retired in 1983, and his assistant, Joe Fagan, took over as manager.  
  Fagan continued the success of Liverpool FC and won the Football League Championship, the League Cup, and the European Cup in his first season as manager. However, tragedy struck the club when 39 Juventus fans were killed in the Heysel Stadium disaster during the 1985 European Cup final. As a result, Liverpool FC was banned from European competitions for six years.  
  After Fagan’s retirement in 1985, Kenny Dalglish took over as manager. Dalglish led Liverpool FC to their most successful period in the late 1980s and early 1990s. During his tenure, Liverpool FC won 3 Football League Championships, 2 FA Cups, 4 Charity Shields, and 1 European Cup. However, Dalglish resigned as manager in 1991.  
  Since then, Liverpool FC has continued to be a successful club, but they have struggled to achieve the same level of success as in the past. In 2004, Liverpool FC won their fifth European Cup; in 2019, they won their sixth Champions League title. The club continues to compete domestically and internationally, aiming to bring more trophies back to Anfield.  
  It is also the success and long history of Liverpool Football Club that makes it stand out from other teams and is widely loved and supported by football fans. There are many football fans who go to the games and watch them play.  
  For Liverpool Football Club fans, wearing custom patches with the club’s logo or with elements of their favorite players on their clothes, hats, backpacks, etc. can help them get more into the atmosphere of the game and help make it more enjoyable to watch.  
  As well as wearing these types of custom patches, you can also wear custom pin badges with club elements on them. These club-style pin badges can be worn not only by yourself but also as a gift for a friend who is also a football fan, these pin badges are very popular among football fans and would certainly make a great gift. If you would like a custom pin badge like this, order now at Pinbadges.co.  
  The season this year isn’t looking too good for Liverpool. Since Klopp interjected his energy, Liverpool has seen some of the most prosperous years, including winning the Premier League for the first time. However, this season is turning out to be a gruelling one, with Liverpool lying in 8th position, 30 points behind leaders Arsenal.  
  Founder and Editor, Clare Deane, shares her passion for all the amazing things happening in Liverpool. With a love of the local Liverpool music scene, dining out a couple of times a week and immersing herself in to all things arts and culture she's in a pretty good place to create some Liverpool Noise.  
  Club History  
  Liverpool’s club history is grand and fascinating, filled with ups and downs cementing themselves as one of the most successful English football clubs. Founded in 1892 by local businessman John Houlding, they now play in the Premier League and are the second-most dominant team with 19 top-flight titles won.  
  Club name  
  Houlding founded Liverpool after breaking from Everton in 1892 having served as the club’s president. The local businessman owned the ground on which Anfield still sits and took the club’s name from their city. While Liverpool’s nickname, The Reds, stemmed from their iconic red strips.  
  Liverpool badge  
  Liverpool have one of the most recognisable badges in the history of the game. The club last made permanent alterations to its design in 2002 yet also introduced a throwback design from 2012 for use on the kits. But in both designs, the Liverbird takes a prominent position in the badge’s design.  
  The Liverbird has been integral to the design of Liverpool’s badge throughout the club’s history. It presently sits on a shield also featuring the year in which Houlding established the Reds. The club’s badge has also featured ‘You’ll Never Walk Alone’ since their 100th-anniversary edition in 1992.  
  Kit history  
  Liverpool’s kit is synonymous with the club having remained a constant almost entirely throughout their history in red. But the Merseyside outfit actually started off playing in a blue and white jersey before switching to red in 1896. Since then, only the shade of red and smaller details have changed.  
  League history  
  Liverpool have spent more than 100 years in the top tier of the professional game in England during their storied history. The Reds play in the top-flight today having joined the Premier League from its inaugural season in 1992/93. They last competed outside of the top-flight during the 1961/62 term.  
  Legendary Reds manager Bill Shankly guided Liverpool out of the old English Football League, Second Division as champions in 1961/62. The Anfield natives would go on to become one of the dominant forces of the English game since. Only Manchester United (20) have lifted more top-flight titles (19).  
  Liverpool trophies  
  The trophy cabinet at Anfield is filled to the brim with titles from the domestic and European game. Liverpool are the second-most successful top-flight team in England with their 19 crowns, including one Premier League title. Jurgen Klopp ended a 30-year wait by lifting the title in the 2019/20 term.  
  Only Arsenal (14) and Manchester United (12) have also won the FA Cup more often than Liverpool. The Reds have won the oldest national football competition in the world eight times to date. While Liverpool are also the third-most dominant outfit in Europe with six European Cups to their name.  
  Anfield stars have also lifted the English Football League Cup on nine occasions and the Community Shield 16 times. While in Europe, the Reds have won UEFA’s secondary club competition, currently named the Europa League, three times. They last won the competition in 2000/01 as the UEFA Cup.  
  Players and managers  
  Legends and Liverpool go hand-in-hand with the Reds enjoying an array of icons on the pitch and in the dugout. Klopp is writing his own history in charge of Liverpool today with titles in the Champions League, Premier League, FA Cup and EFL Cup. While Shankly’s legend as Liverpool boss is everlasting.  
  Shankly transformed Liverpool into a footballing dynasty during his 14-and-a-half-year tenure at the club. The Scot turned not only a sleeping giant into a winning machine but made a club stuck in the wilderness believe again. His efforts would yield three top-flight titles, two FA Cups and a UEFA Cup.  
  While on the pitch, legends have graced Anfield throughout Liverpool’s history – no less so than Phil Neal. The full-back is the most-decorated player in Liverpool’s history after helping them lift 22 titles across all competitions. While fans passionately remember Kenny Dalglish as King Kenny for his exploits.  
  Dalglish is arguably Liverpool’s greatest-ever player after guiding the club to six top-flight titles over his years as a striker. While Steven Gerrard is the club’s modern-day great after captaining Liverpool back to European glory with the Champions League in 2005 after graduating from their academy.  
  Where FSG might look for Liverpool plan as one 'multi-club' ruled out  
  Liverpool owners Fenway Sports Group are looking at acquiring another football club  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Fenway Sports Group is on the lookout for another football club to add to its portfolio, that much we know for sure.  
  In bringing back Michael Edwards to the fold earlier this month, FSG had to find a compelling reason for the former Liverpool sporting director to return, creating a ‘CEO of football’ role for him where one of the elements would involve the addition of another club.  
  Edwards has already wasted little time in hiring a new sporting director for the Reds, with Richard Hughes joining from Bournemouth, and attention will soon turn to just what club joins the ranks as FSG becomes the latest team owner to pursue a multi-club model.  
  Speaking at the time of his appointment at the beginning of the month, Edwards, who will be working for FSG as opposed to Liverpool, said: “One of the biggest factors in my decision is the commitment to acquire and oversee an additional club. I believe that to remain competitive, investment and expansion of the current football portfolio is necessary.”  
  In 2021, Brazilian passed a law that gave greater encouragement to outside investors to arrive into the market, allowing for the creation of a ‘football limited company’ (Sociedade Anonima do Futebol, SAF), which created a special tax regulation for clubs in a country where the vast majority of teams had been non-profit.  
  Among the clubs to move to an SAF structure were Botafogo and Cruzeiro, with the former eventually acquired by US billionaire and Crystal Palace shareholder John Textor, who also owns French side Lyon and a number of other clubs across the globe.  
  Another motivating factor was and remains, that Brazilian football is planning for a restructure, a kind of Brazilian Super League, where the biggest market clubs compete. That is something that promises to significantly enhance the value of the media rights in the country.  
  FSG had some interest in the earlier stages in Cruzeiro, a club that was eventually acquired by Brazilian legend Ronaldo and a group of investors.  
  FSG was never far along with their interest in the Brazilian market, and with some soul searching to be had toward the end of 2021 and into 2022, where the ownership group opened themselves up to a potential sale by seeking interest to get an idea on an up to date and realistic valuation. FSG got what they required and quickly committed to the long term at Liverpool, bringing on board New York-based investment firm Dynasty Equity as a minority partner.  
  Refocused and at a time when Liverpool needs new leadership, FSG presented the opportunity to Edwards to aid their attempts to get him back at the wheel after he had decided to leave back in 2021.  
  In terms of cost, acquiring a small European or South American team to house and develop talent will be fairly minimal for FSG. After all, Manchester City owners City Football Group have an entire network of them, 13 to be exact.  
  But after the Moises Caicedo affair in the summer, where the club broke from the norm and opted to bid £111m for the Ecuadorian, a deal that was eventually gazumped by Chelsea, who paid £115m, the FSG view is that they could be doing more to find these players earlier. Just two years previous, Caicedo had cost just £4.5m when he joined Brighton & Hove Albion from Independiente del Valle in his native country.  
  Another club could help identify talent at an earlier stage, house them, develop them in the Liverpool way and aid the efforts in getting the required GBE (Governing Body Endorsement) points for them to play in England.  
  Another club also provides FSG with another asset, an uncorrelated one at that, one likely to grow in value that can aid player trading and not be so beholden to the changes that happen in the economy, with sports fairly resilient in that respect.  
  South America is a viable option for FSG, still.  
  But it seems more likely that Liverpool’s owners may look to Europe, in a market that offers a route to UEFA competition, which is something that aids GBE greatly and can help acclimate players from continents such as South America or Africa.  
  France is a well-trodden route for African talent to acclimate to European football, while Portugal has seen plenty of success in bringing on players from Brazil, Argentina, and others. The Netherlands and Belgium have also proven to be good markets for player growth, both offering a good chance of on-pitch success, with Brighton owner Tony Bloom’s ownership of Union Saint-Gilloise demonstrating the potential success of the model, with Japanese winger Kaoru Mitoma having benefited greatly from his time in Belgium, with the team having been regulars in European competition in recent seasons.  
  One club that FSG isn’t targeting, however, is French Ligue 1 side Toulouse, a team owned by 11% shareholders in FSG, RedBird Capital Partners, the owners of AC Milan.  
  On Wednesday some reports emerged that FSG and Edwards were looking at acquiring the Les Violets, but well-placed sources in the US that the ECHO have spoken to have rejected the claims as false.  
  There will be no quick decision on a team acquisition for FSG, and there will be multiple boxes that a new club would have to tick. From geography to demographics of the local area, from fan sentiment to exiting squad profile and potential, a multitude of different aspects must be considered and nothing is likely to be rushed.  
  It does form part of the long-term for FSG’s ownership of Liverpool, and it is a decision that they won’t want to get wrong given the importance placed upon it in relation to what the club’s transfer business looks like in the coming years.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Cookie banner  
  We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from. To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy. Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.  
  By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  
  Share this story  
  Share All sharing options for: Harvey Elliott Wants to ‘Experience Everything’ With Liverpool  
  Harvey Elliott is working with a lifestyle management company who released an exclusive interview with the player. He talks about his experience at Liverpool and his hopes for the future.  
  More entertaining, though, is the grandiose language used to try and sell the player to potential luxury brands.  
  For instance, “The understated elegance of oversized, billowing styles on smaller builds like Harvey’s have become the go-to trend for luxury fashion brands — and at 5ft 7in, he is not only one of the most fluid footballers in the Premier League but an alluring profile for brands looking to transcend boundaries with forward-thinking designs.”  
  Liverpool Football Club have enjoyed his alluring profile in midfield this season, with the young player really breaking into the first team and having a big impact on the squad. He enjoys playing in Liverpool, as well.  
  “It was a dream come true,” he said. “It’s an incredible feeling to put the shirt on and have that badge on my chest. Just being around the city and meeting the people, the love they have for the game is incredible.”  
  Regarding his ambitions with the team going forward, Elliott is thinking big.  
  “Both individually and collectively we are never content with what we have, we always want more,” he said. “I have a hunger for greatness. I hope the dedication, desire and motivation to do the small things well, will take me a long way in my career. Call it greedy, but I want to achieve more and experience everything this game has to offer, especially when it comes to trophies with this club.”  
  While Liverpool have fallen out of the FA Cup, they still have the possibility of winning two more trophies this season to add to Elliott’s collection, along with the League Cup trophy.  
  Loading comments...  
  Sign up for the newsletter Sign up for the Liverpool Offside Daily Roundup newsletter!  
  A daily roundup of Liverpool FC news from Liverpool Offside  
  Thanks for signing up!  
  Check your inbox for a welcome email.  
  Email (required)  
  Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.  
  The Historical Impact of Football on Liverpool  
  Liverpool, situated in the Northwest of England, has had a very storied history. It’s a place known for its people who are warm and welcoming, hardworking and passionate. It was the birthplace of one of the world’s most influential and much-loved bands. Also, it’s the home of two of English football’s most famous clubs.  
  The Beatles, Everton Football Club and Liverpool Football Club will forever be on the tip of people’s tongues when thinking of the city, alongside its heritage as one of England’s most culturally significant places. Transatlantic import and exports steamed in and out of the city’s docks before any other, instantly making it one of the country’s most diverse and interesting places, and residents were proud of their city because of it. That pride still flows through the city as powerfully as the water from the Irish Sea that makes its way through the heart of Liverpool via the River Mersey.  
  Some may be surprised to hear that Liverpool FC was the second club of the city when they were formed back in 1892. They introduced themselves to the city by taking over Anfield from the established club, Everton, and they played their first game with a team full of players who had travelled south from Scotland to the city to take on Rotherham Town. As well as utilising the city’s links as a destination for travellers, the club aligned themselves as a symbol of Liverpool by adopting the city’s liver bird symbol and the colour synonymous with the city, red, further highlighting their links with the people.  
  As football continued into the mid 20th century, industry in the city declined. The docks were becoming less important to the country with the advent of more reliable and cost-effective means of transport. By the 70s, the recession began to take hold, but while one element of the city’s heritage withered, music brought people together. The Beatles were flying high and brought a new focus on Liverpool from music lovers across the world. Within a few years, Liverpool FC attracted attention, too, as they dominated English and European football into the eighties, raising the city’s profile even further. Ever since, The Reds have been one of the most prominent clubs in world football and are constantly one of the favourites for the Premier League, as they are this season in the Premier League odds with Coral. However, despite their insane success through the eighties, they have only once won England’s top-flight since 1990; that coming in 2020. Meanwhile, across Stanley Park, the first professional club formed in Liverpool could only look on.  
  In 1878, the congregation of St Domingo Methodist Chapel created a football team to keep the people together and play a sport in winter following the end of the cricket season. It was a time when a new sense of community was developing, there was a growing feeling of independence, a yearning for identity, and the football club helped this.  
  Within a year, St Domingo FC became Everton Football Club, playing their first game in the bosom of the community, in the corner of Stanley Park, before moving to neighbouring Priory Road. Within ten years, they were proud founding members of the Football League and became tenants at nearby Anfield. In 1892 they moved across Stanley Park to their current home, Goodison Park, which is notable because it was the first purpose-built stadium for football in the country. Goodison has been a happy home for Everton, as fans have seen them win the top division in England nine times. Now over 130 years later, they are preparing to move to a new stadium on the famous Mersey dockside, a decision that has been shaped by the people for the good of the city, as reported by the Liverpool Echo.  
  Inspired by history, the area around the once-bustling dockside has seen a massive regeneration over the past decade or so, with a number of museums opening celebrating the city’s past. The Maritime Museum, Tate Liverpool, and the Beatles Museum, are just two current cultural symbols with links to the past. But with Everton moving to Bramley Dock within the next few years, football will continue to play a part in the continued redevelopment of the city, which is prouder than ever and brimming with life.  
  I am a Chartered Environmentalist from the Royal Society for the Environment, UK and co-owner of DoLocal Digital Marketing Agency Ltd, with a Master of Environmental Management from Yale University, an MBA in Finance, and a Bachelor of Science in Physics and Mathematics. I am passionate about science, history and environment and love to create content on these topics.  
  Sign In  
  Lost Password  
  Please enter your username or email address. You will receive a link to create a new password via email.  
  Sign Up  
  360onHistory.com uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.  
  Strictly Necessary Cookies  
  Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.  
  Enable or Disable Cookies  
  If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.  
  Additional Cookies  
  This website uses the following additional cookies:  
  Google.co.uk  
  Addthis.com  
  doubleclick,net  
  Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!  
  History  
  Liverpool’s Cavern Club is the cradle of British pop music. Impressively, 60 years after its foundation, it survives and thrives as a contemporary music venue.  
  Through seven eventful decades, before, during and after The Beatles this legendary cellar has seen its share of setbacks yet has played a role in each epoch of music, from 1950s jazz to 21st century indie rock. Take a look at the Cavern’s rollercoaster ride through the decades and discover how it survived the setbacks and closures to become the most famous music club in the world!  
  1950s  
  The history of the Cavern Club begins on Wednesday 16 January 1957, when the doors opened for the very first time to this warehouse cellar venue at 10 Mathew Street, Liverpool...  
  1960s  
  In early 1960 the Beat Music scene in Liverpool exploded and the Cavern Club became the most publicised pop music venue in the world...  
  1970s  
  The 1970s started with another change of ownership. The historic standing of the Cavern Club didn’t stop British Rail enforcing its closure in 1973...  
  1980s  
  The Cavern Club is back at 8-10 Mathew Street, an authentic and evocative location that attracts visitors, audiences and bands from across the world...  
  1990s  
  In the 1990s, Cavern City Tours became the new owners of the Cavern Club and found a balance between paying homage to the rich musical legacy of the Cavern...  
  2000s  
  During this decade the Cavern Club celebrated it 50th year and Liverpool became European Capital of Culture...  
  2010 – Present Day  
  1950s  
  The history of the Cavern Club begins on Wednesday 16 January 1957, when the doors opened for the very first time to this warehouse cellar venue at 10 Mathew Street, Liverpool...  
  1960s  
  In early 1960 the Beat Music scene in Liverpool exploded and the Cavern Club became the most publicised pop music venue in the world...  
  1970s  
  The 1970s started with another change of ownership. The historic standing of the Cavern Club didn’t stop British Rail enforcing its closure in 1973...  
  1980s  
  The Cavern Club is back at 8-10 Mathew Street, an authentic and evocative location that attracts visitors, audiences and bands from across the world...  
  1990s  
  In the 1990s, Cavern City Tours became the new owners of the Cavern Club and found a balance between paying homage to the rich musical legacy of the Cavern...  
  2000s  
  During this decade the Cavern Club celebrated it 50th year and Liverpool became European Capital of Culture...  
  2010 – Present Day  
  This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Learn more.  
  HistoryHonours  
  Liverpool FC is one of the world's most successful football clubs with 51 major men's honours.  
  Our women's team has also been crowned English champions twice, while the FA Youth Cup has been won on four occasions by the Reds.  
  19  
  League Titles  
  Liverpool have won a phenomenal 19 top-flight league titles, with Jürgen Klopp leading the Reds to their most recent in the Premier League in 2019-20.  
  ‌  
  6  
  European Cups  
  We have proudly won six European Cups - more than any other British team. The first came under Bob Paisley, who added two more to the trophy cabinet before his successor Joe Fagan also won the famous cup. Rafael Benitez oversaw the Miracle of Istanbul in 2005, and the most recent came under Jürgen Klopp in 2019.  
  ‌  
  1  
  FIFA Club World Cup  
  2019  
  Liverpool broke new ground in December 2019 by lifting the Club World Cup for the first time in Reds history. Jürgen Klopp's European Cup winners defeated Monterrey and Flamengo to become world champions.  
  ‌  
  2  
  Women's Super League Titles  
  2013, 2014  
  Liverpool FC Women, playing as Liverpool FC Ladies, won their first WSL title in 2013 and would go on to repeat the feat in 2014 after a dramatic season finale saw them leapfrog from third to first.  
  ‌  
  8  
  FA Cups  
  Liverpool have eight FA Cups to their name. The first triumph came under Bill Shankly in 1965 when Leeds United were defeated 2-1 at Wembley.  
  ‌  
  10  
  League Cups  
  Liverpool boast a record tally of 10 League Cups. The trophy was last brought home to Anfield in 2024 courtesy of a 1-0 extra-time victory over Chelsea at Wembley.  
  ‌  
  3  
  UEFA Cups  
  1972-73, 1975-76, 2000-01  
  We have won the UEFA Cup on three occasions. Bill Shankly, Bob Paisley and Gerard Houllier all led their teams to the trophy, the latter thanks to a 5-4 win over Alaves in one of the most incredible European finals of all time.  
  ‌  
  4  
  UEFA Super Cups  
  1977, 2001, 2005, 2019  
  Three of Liverpool's European Cup victories and one UEFA Cup win have been followed up with success in the season-opening Super Cup.  
  ‌  
  16  
  Charity/Community Shields  
  The Reds have got their hands on 16 Charity/Community Shields over the years, either winning the trophy outright or, as used to be the case, sharing it with another team following a draw.  
  ‌  
  4  
  FA Youth Cups  
  1996, 2006, 2007, 2019  
  Our first FA Youth Cup triumph came in 1996 as a team containing future stars Michael Owen and Jamie Carragher defeated West Ham United. Back-to-back victories followed in 2006 and 2007, and the Reds lifted it again in 2019.  
  Believe it or not, there was a time when Anfield was the home of the Blues and not the Reds!  
  Everton were one of the first members of the Football League but when they were evicted from Anfield in 1892, stadium owner John Houlding was left with an empty ground and no team to play in it.  
  So Houlding decided to form his own team and, on 3 June 1892, Liverpool Football Club was born.  
  1901  
  Liverpool won their first ever League Championship in 1901.  
  A run of nine wins and three draws from their final twelve matches saw the Reds crowned champions.  
  The team were given a heroes welcome when they returned to the city with the trophy and captain Alex Raisbeck was carried through the streets on the shoulders of fans!  
  1959  
  In December 1959, Bill Shankly was appointed as the manager of Liverpool FC.  
  The Scotsman's impact was instant and he transformed the club into one of the strongest teams in Europe.  
  Many believe Shankly is the greatest manager in the history of the Reds, and he is almost as well remembered for his quotes, such as "If Everton were playing at the bottom of the garden, I'd pull the curtains", as he is for his trophy successes!  
  1964  
  It may be hard to believe but Liverpool have not always played in an all-red kit.  
  In fact, it wasn't until 1964 when manager Bill Shankly decided to replace the white shorts and socks with red ones as he felt an all-red kit strip would make his players look more scary to the opposition!  
  So, in December 1964 Liverpool wore all-red for the first time in a European Cup match with Anderlecht, changing the image of football forever.  
  1977  
  Over 20,000 Scousers made their way to Rome to watch Liverpool lift their first ever European Cup.  
  Just like the UEFA Cup final of 1973, Borussia Monchengladbach were the opponents once again, but this time the result was never in doubt.  
  Monchengladbach cancelled out Terry McDermott's opening strike, however second-half goals from Tommy Smith and Phil Neal meant the European Cup was heading for Anfield as Bob Paisley's Reds ran out 3-1 winners.  
  1983  
  After 44 years as a player, coach and manager of Liverpool, Bob Paisley retired.  
  Paisley won an astonishing three European Cups, six league titles, three League Cups, one UEFA Cup, one European Super Cup and five Charity Shields during his time as Reds boss making him the most successful manager in the history of the club.  
  He became part of the Liverpool board after his retirement but sadly passed away in 1996.  
  1986  
  Liverpool claimed a league and FA Cup double in Kenny Dalglish's first-season as player-manager.  
  The Reds won eight of their last nine games to see off the challenge of neighbours Everton and clinch their 16th League Championship - and it was Dalglish who scored the goal that secured the title with a winning strike against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on the final day.  
  The following week, Liverpool beat Everton 3-1 in the FA Cup final at Wembley to leave the Blues feeling even more miserable!  
  1989  
  Over 25,000 Liverpool fans travelled to Hillsborough for the FA Cup semi-final.  
  Ninety six of them never returned.  
  They'll Never Walk Alone.  
  2001  
  Liverpool won an astonishing three trophies in one season, collecting the FA, UEFA and League Cups.  
  Birmingham were defeated in the League Cup final before two late Michael Owen goals defeated Arsenal in the FA Cup, but the best was yet to come as the Reds beat Spanish club Alaves 5-4 in a crazy game in Dortmund.  
  Champions League qualification was also secured on the final day of the season to bring an unbelievable campaign to an end for manager Gerard Houllier.  
  2005  
  Liverpool claimed their fifth European Cup after a memorable triumph over AC Milan.  
  The Reds had overcome all odds to reach the final, but were losing 3-0 by half-time. However, an incredible second-half saw goals from Gerrard, Smicer and Alonso drew Liverpool level before they went on to win the cup on penalties.  
  An unforgettable homecoming followed and the trophy returned to Anfield, where it would remain as Liverpool had won it for keeps!  
  2012  
  Brendan Rodgers was announced as Liverpool manager following the departure of Kenny Dalglish.  
  The Northern Irishman had learnt from some of the finest coaches in world football, including Jose Mourinho during his spell at Chelsea.  
  The Reds' new boss managed at Reading and Swansea before arriving at Anfield.  
  Press ESC to close  
  Soccer History Of Liverpool FC  
  Date Published: March 19, 2021 – Date Updated: April 12, 2023  
  Liverpool FC is arguably one of the most popular teams in England and worldwide. They play in the English Premier League and are a regular contender for the league title.  
  Liverpool has enjoyed periods of continued success over the years, at one stage being arguably the best soccer team worldwide. They have a vast trophy cabinet with 19 First Division / Premier League titles. They also have 6 Champions League trophies, the most achieved by an English side. They play their home game at Anfield Road, a stadium with a capacity crowd of 53,394 seats.  
  The Anfield club has an exciting history that is worth being shared. Let’s dive right into the beginning of The Reds without wasting any time.  
  The Foundation Of Liverpool FC  
  John Houlding, the founder of Liverpool FC, was the club president and the Anfield landowner. He formed Liverpool FC in 1892 following a dispute with the Everton committee. Everton later moved to Goodison Park, and the newly formed Liverpool FC played at Anfield.  
  They won the Lancashire League in their debut season, winning their first match 8-0 against Higher Walton, on September 3, 1892. The club enjoyed early success, and, with a team comprised of mostly Scottish players, they played in their first Football League Second Division game in 1893-94. The Anfield club finished first and was promoted to the First Division.  
  The club established an early foothold within the local area, quickly becoming a club seen as a potential giant of the national game.  
  Liverpool FC First League Title  
  The Reds won their first league title in 1901 and then in 1906, cementing themselves as an early piece of English soccer folklore. They came out runner-up in the FA Cup final in 1914 when they lost to Bolton Wanderers by 1-0. However, future success would come in 1923 when the club managed to win back-to-back league titles.  
  During the next few years, Liverpool witnessed a fall. They had to wait for twenty-four years to win another trophy. During the 1946-47 season, they won the English League title for the first time since the Second World War. In 1950, the team played in another FA Cup final against Arsenal. They came out runners-up in the match.  
  Relegation To The Second Division  
  They suffered relegation in the 1953-54 campaign. They earlier spent 50 consecutive years in the English First Division.  
  Next, in the 1958-59 season, The Reds lost the FA Cup to the non-league side Worcester City by 2-1. Their fate was looking uncertain. Soon after, Bill Shankly took over the club; the rest is history.  
  The Bill Shankly Era  
  Bill Shankly’s arrival meant the Anfield club had to change how they operated. He transformed the boot storage room into a place where meetings were held. The coaches would discuss tactics during the sessions.  
  Shankly received the support of other members like Joe Fagan, Reuben Bennett, and Bob Paisley. Finally, in 1962, the Merseyside club achieved promotion back into the first division. Two years later, the club ended 17 years of trophy wait by winning the first division title.  
  The Liverpool Jersey  
  The early jersey Liverpool wore was red tops with white piping and white shorts with red stripes. Shankly proposed switching the jersey to an all-red one. He believed that it would have a psychological effect on the players and opponents.  
  “The all-red jersey made the players look like giants, and for the first time, there was a glow like fire when I entered Anfield.”  
  Shankly used these words to describe the impact of the all-red jersey.  
  More Trophies Under Shankly  
  In 1965, they won their first-ever FA Cup trophy by defeating Leeds United by 2-1 in the extra-time. The Reds went on to lift another league title in 1966. During the same season, they faced Borussia Dortmund in the European Cup final. The Anfield club lost by 2-1, courtesy of an extra-time goal by Reinhard “Stan” Libuda.  
  In the 1972-73 season, they lifted two major trophies. They won the league title and the UEFA Cup. The Reds won the FA Cup one year later.  
  At 60, Bill Shankly decided to retire as Liverpool coach. During his managerial career with “The Reds”, Shankly won 3 First Division titles, 2 FA Cups, 1 UEFA Cup, 3 FA Charity Shields, and 1 Second Division title. Bob Paisley took over as Liverpool head coach. He had the difficult task of continuing the legacy set up by Shankly.  
  The Bob Paisley Time  
  Bob Paisley’s tenure at Liverpool FC was for nine seasons. Despite having the difficult task of emulating Shankly’s performance, the gaffer delivered 20 trophies to the Anfield club.  
  Paisley turned Liverpool into a dominant force in England and Europe. He guided The Reds to a 63 games unbeaten run at Anfield between 1978 and 1981. Jürgen Klopp recently broke this record. Paisley is one of the three coaches in history who has won 3 European Cups with the same team. The other two coaches are Carlo Ancelotti and Zinedine Zidane.  
  Paisley signed Kenny Dalglish from Celtic to replace Kevin Keegan. The club paid £440,000 to seal the signature of the Scottish forward. He scored 118 goals from 355 appearances for Liverpool in the First Division league.  
  Paisley won 6 league titles, 3 European Cups, 1 UEFA Cup, and 3 consecutive league cups. The only domestic trophy he could not achieve was the FA Cup.  
  In 1983, Paisley was replaced by Joe Fagan as Liverpool’s head coach.  
  “This Club has been my life; I’d go out and sweep the street and be proud to do it for Liverpool FC if they asked me to.” – Bob Paisley.  
  Joe Fagan And The Heysel Tragedy  
  Joe Fagan’s spells as Liverpool manager was brief compared to Shankly and Paisley. He spent two seasons as The Reds coach. During his first season, Fagan became the first manager in English soccer to achieve the treble. In the 1983-84 season, Liverpool won the European Cup, the First Division, and the League Cup.  
  The 1985 Heysel tragedy remains the darkest moment in the history of the UEFA competitions. Liverpool and Juventus fans confronted each other before the match, resulting in the death of 39 people. Most of the victims were Italians and Juventus supporters. Fourteen Liverpool fans found guilty were sentenced to three years imprisonment. English clubs received an indefinite ban from European competitions. The ban was lifted in 1990-91.  
  Eventually, on May 29, 1985, Fagan announced his retirement. His successor was Kenny Dalglish.  
  Kenny Dalglish As Player-Manager  
  Kenny Dalglish replaced the departing Joe Fagan as player-manager in 1985. He guided Liverpool to a double in his first season, winning the English League and the FA Cup.  
  Despite losing the league title to Everton the following season, Dalglish brought the title back at Anfield during the 1987-88 campaign. He went on to clinch a third title in 1989-90.  
  Liverpool also won the 1988-89 FA Cup by defeating Everton in the final. Dalglish announced his retirement as Liverpool FC manager on February 22, 1991.  
  The Hillsborough Disaster  
  Under Dalglish, Liverpool qualified for the semi-final of the FA Cup in the 1988-89 campaign. They were drawn against Nottingham Forest, with the fixture announced at the Hillsborough Stadium in Sheffield.  
  A disaster occurred in the stadium on April 5, 1989, before the semi-final kick-off. A crush of soccer fans resulted in the death of 96 people. The 96 people who lost their lives were Liverpool fans, and hundreds of people were injured. The tragedy is still remembered and mourned today by world soccer.  
  The match was later re-scheduled at Old Trafford, which Liverpool won by 3-1. In the final, The Reds defeated Everton to clinch the trophy.  
  The 1990s & Beyond  
  The Anfield club’s decline was unforeseen despite Liverpool entering the 1990s as champions. Managed by Sir Alex Ferguson, Manchester United became a dominant force in English soccer.  
  The arrival of Graeme Souness and then of Roy Evans as Liverpool coach did not bring much change. Eventually, in the 1998-89 campaign, Gérard Houllier was appointed as co-manager alongside Roy Evans. Houllier was made the only Liverpool manager in November 1998.  
  Gérard Houllier And Treble Winners  
  Gérard Houllier guided Liverpool to a treble in 2001. After winning the League Cup, The Reds lifted the FA and UEFA Cup. Liverpool won the FA Charity Shield and the Super Cup the same year.  
  Houllier introduced academy players like Steven Gerrard, Michael Owen, and Jamie Carragher. He also brought players like Sami Hyypiä, Dietmar Hamann, Vladimír Šmicer, Sander Westerveld, and Djimi Traoré.  
  On May 24, 2004, Gérard Houllier left Liverpool by mutual consent following a series of bad results. Spanish coach Rafael Benítez replaced him.  
  Rafael Benítez Is Appointed As Liverpool Coach  
  Rafael Benítez was appointed as Liverpool FC manager on June 16, 2004. The gaffer became the first Spanish coach to manage a Premier League side.  
  On his arrival, Benítez had the task of persuading club captain Steven Gerrard to extend his Liverpool contract. Chelsea was showing interest in signing the Liverpool midfielder. He eventually managed to convince Gerrard to stay at the club. On the other hand, Michael Owen refused to extend his contract and was subsequently sold to Real Madrid.  
  Benítez signed two Spanish players, namely Luis Garcia and Xavi Alonso. The two players went on to become club legends. Benítez also revived the career of Jamie Carragher by partnering him with Sami Hyypiä.  
  The Istanbul Miracle  
  The 2004-05 Champions League campaign remains the best season under Rafael Benítez. Liverpool had to wait for the 87th minute of the last group stage match of the Champions League to seal qualification. A superb strike from Steven Gerrard from the outside of the box finished into the net. Liverpool gained qualification against Olympiacos to the knock-out stages on the head-to-head difference.  
  Luis Garcia scored the only goal against Chelsea in the semi-final to propel Liverpool into the final. Their opponents in the final were AC Milan. The fixture was scheduled on May 25, 2005, at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul, Turkey.  
  Benítez men were 3-0 down at half-time. In the second half, Liverpool scored three goals in six minutes to make a remarkable comeback. They eventually won the final on penalties thanks to the heroics of goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek.  
  Benítez won 4 trophies as Liverpool manager. They are 1 UEFA Champions League, 1 FA Cup, 1 FA Community Shield, and 1 UEFA Super Cup. On June 3, 2010, Benítez left the club by mutual consent following issues with the management.  
  New Ownership, New Avenues  
  Liverpool previous owners, Tom Hicks, and Gillett, brought the team to the brink of bankruptcy. The High Court sanctioned the club’s sale, and John W. Henry successfully bid for Liverpool FC’s ownership.  
  The Reds were financially unstable and had many debts when they changed ownership. John W. Henry promised to turn things around, but he asked the fans for patience and time. He had the massive task of clearing all financial debts owed by the Anfield club and turning them into title contenders.  
  Since the Boston Red Sox and Fenway Sports Group (FSG) owner’s arrival, The Reds have had four managerial changes. Kenny Dalglish replaced Roy Hodgson following a series of poor results.  
  Dalglish helped Liverpool to a historic 8th League Cup success in 2012. He was replaced by Brendan Rodgers, whose best season came in 2013-14 when Liverpool finished second in the league table behind Manchester City. Liverpool scored 101 goals that season, a record number since the 1895-96 campaign, where they scored 106 goals. Luis Suárez led the Reds attack. He scored a whopping 31 goals and finished the season as the top scorer.  
  Brendan Rodgers was sacked during the 2015-16 season following a poor start. Jürgen Klopp, the ex-Borussia Dortmund manager replaced Rodgers at Liverpool.  
  Jürgen Klopp, The Normal One  
  Liverpool FC appointed Jürgen Klopp as their manager on October 8, 2015. He signed a three-year contract with the Anfield club. During his first press conference, Klopp promised to change The Reds fans from doubters to believers. He also promised to deliver his first title in 4 years.  
  During his first season in charge, Jürgen Klopp guided his side to an 8th place finish in the league. Besides, Liverpool booked its place in the League Cup final, where they faced Manchester City. Klopp’s men eventually lost the final on penalties.  
  In the UEFA Europa Cup, Liverpool defeated Manchester United by 3-1 on aggregate to advance to the quarter-finals. On April 14, 2016, The Reds produced one of the most remarkable comebacks in the Europa League history by defeating Borussia Dortmund. They faced Villareal in the semi-finals, in which they won 3-1 on aggregate. In the final, they had Sevilla FC as their opponent. Despite leading at half-time by 1-0 thanks to a Daniel Sturridge goal, Liverpool lost the final by 1-3.  
  New Contract, New Horizon  
  Despite losing two finals in his first season, Liverpool owners were pleased with Klopp’s debut season performance. They offered the Anfield manager a contract extension binding him to the club until 2022.  
  In his second season in charge, Klopp guided Liverpool to a 4th-place finish securing their ticket for the Champions League. During 2017-18 season, Liverpool again finished 4th in the league table to book their Champions League place.  
  Addressing The Attacking And Defensive Issues  
  In 2016, Jürgen Klopp signed Sadio Mané from Southampton for £34 million. Mané had an immediate impact on the team’s performance. Mohamed Salah incredible performance for Roma attracted interests from Liverpool. In 2017, The Reds signed him for £36.9 million. With Sadio Mané, Roberto Firmino, and Mohamed Salah in the attack, Liverpool looked impressive up-front.  
  The defence was conceding too many goals, and this area needed to be addressed quickly. Jürgen Klopp signed Virgil Van Dijk from Southampton for a world-record fee of £75 million in January 2018. His arrival proved decisive as Liverpool booked their ticket for the Champions League final that season.  
  The Kyiv Champions League Final  
  Liverpool faced Real Madrid in the final of the Champions League. Klopp’s side started the match well, but a first-half injury forced Salah out. The game ended in a 3-1 defeat for The Reds.  
  Karim Benzema scored the opener for Real Madrid in the 51st minute. Four minutes later, Sadio Mané levelled the score at 1-1. In the 63rd and the 83rd minutes, Gareth Bale’s goals guaranteed a third consecutive Champions League trophy for Zinedine Zidane’s side.  
  Alisson And Fabinho Join The Reds  
  Two days after the Champions League final defeat, Liverpool announced the signature of Fabinho from Monaco for £39 million. Klopp knew that the missing puzzle for his side to compete at the highest level was a world-class goalkeeper.  
  On July 19, 2018, Liverpool signed Alisson Becker from Roma for £66.8 million. Liverpool squad looked promising and ready to fight for silverware.  
  At The End Of The Storm, There’s A Golden Sky  
  Liverpool started the 2018-19 Premier League campaign as best as possible. They won their first six matches of the season, making it the club’s best start in history. That season saw Liverpool finished second with 97 points, the most points a side ever earned in English soccer history, and not win the league. Salah and Mané both finished as the league’s top scorer together with Aubameyang.  
  Liverpool’s reiterated the impressive run in the Champions League. In the quarter-finals, they defeated FC Porto by 6-1 on aggregate. Jürgen Klopp’s side was drawn against FC Barcelona in the semi-finals.  
  The first leg was played at Camp Now stadium. Liverpool started the game well but eventually lost the match by 3-0. Two goals from Lionel Messi and one goal from Luis Suárez gave the Catalan a three goals advantage.  
  In the second leg, Liverpool welcomed Barcelona at Anfield. Overcoming a three goals deficit looked almost impossible. On May 7, 2019, Liverpool produced one of Champions League history’s finest comebacks to defeat Barcelona by 4-0. A brace from Divock Origi and Georginio Wijnaldum ensured that The Reds advanced to the finals by a 4-3 aggregate win.  
  The UEFA Champions League Final  
  Liverpool faced Tottenham in an all-English final in Madrid, Spain, on June 1, 2019. An early Salah penalty and a late strike from Origi secured Liverpool a record sixth Champions League trophy, the most won by an English side. An astonishing 750,000 people joined the Liverpool Champions League trophy parade.  
  In the UEFA Super Cup final, Liverpool defeated Chelsea FC on penalties by 5-4. The match finished level at 2-2 after extra time.  
  Liverpool won the FIFA Club World Cup by 1-0 against Flamengo. Roberto Firmino scored the only goal of the match. Liverpool became the first English side to win an international treble.  
  Liverpool FC Are Premier League Champions  
  Liverpool started the English Premier League season 2019-20 aggressively. The Reds replicated their previous year league record by registering six wins in their first six league games. Impressed by Klopp’s performance, the owners gave him a two-year contract extension binding him with the Anfield club until 2024.  
  On January 11, 2020, Liverpool defeated Tottenham Hotspur by 1-0 to create a new record. They became the first side in Europe’s top 5 leagues to earn 61 points from their first 21 games. On June 25, 2020, Liverpool has officially declared Premier League Champions with seven games left. They finished the season with an 18 points advantage over second-place Manchester City.  
  The Covid-19 outbreak hit the 2019-20 Premier League campaign and soccer activity worldwide. The season was put on hold at one point. Ultimately, the Premier League resumed behind closed doors for safety measures.  
  Liverpool broke a 30 years jinx to lift their 19th league title and first-ever Premier League trophy.  
  Having won hearts and minds worldwide, Liverpool is back on their perch’ under Klopp. The club has endured a challenging thirty years domestically. Still, Klopp has helped restore their local and European ability, returning Liverpool to being one of world soccer’s proper elite clubs.  
  You’ll Never Walk Alone Song  
  “You’ll Never Walk Alone” is a show tune from the 1945 Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, Carousel. The song has become a popular anthem in football, particularly associated with Liverpool Football Club. The club’s fans have adopted it as their signature song, and it is played before every home game at Anfield, Liverpool’s home ground.  
  The song gained its association with Liverpool FC in the early 1960s when the local band Gerry and the Pacemakers covered it. Their version topped the UK charts in 1963, and soon after, it started being played at Anfield. It quickly became an integral part of the club’s identity and a symbol of unity and support among the fans.  
  Here are the lyrics to “You’ll Never Walk Alone”:  
  When you walk through a storm Hold your head up high And don’t be afraid of the dark  
  At the end of the storm There’s a golden sky And the sweet silver song of a lark  
  Walk on through the wind Walk on through the rain Though your dreams be tossed and blown  
  Walk on, walk on With hope in your heart And you’ll never walk alone  
  You’ll never walk alone  
  Walk on, walk on With hope in your heart And you’ll never walk alone  
  You’ll never walk alone  
  References:  
  Date accessed: 12 January 2021. Liverpool FC. Wikipedia: https://bit.ly/3q8XCXG  
  Date accessed: 12 January 2021. History of Liverpool FC. Wikipedia: https://bit.ly/2NV3FSP  
  Date accessed: 12 January 2021. Liverpool FC Timeline. Liverpool FC Official Website: https://bit.ly/3dzbibp  
  History of Liverpool F.C.  
  The history of Liverpool Football Club is divided into three periods:  
  History of Liverpool F.C. (1892–1959) – The club was founded in 1892 following a split from Everton F.C. and joined the Football League in 1893. The appointment of Tom Watson as manager resulted in the club's first successful period, in which they won two League Championships. Two League Championships were won in the 1920s and a further one was won in 1947. Following the club's fortunes declined and they were relegated to the Second Division in 1954.[1]  
  History of Liverpool F.C. (1959–1985) – Bill Shankly was appointed as manager in 1959 and guided the club back into the First Division. Shankly's arrival laid the foundations for the club's success in the 1970s and 80s domestically and in European competition, as the club won numerous League Championships and four European Cups.  
  History of Liverpool F.C. (1985–present) – Following the Heysel Stadium disaster in 1985, English clubs were banned from European competitions until 1991. The club was still successful domestically winning three League Championships during this period. The 1990s saw a lack of success for the club as they struggled to repeat their success in the Premier League era. The club reached former heights in 2005 when they won the UEFA Champions League (formerly known as the European Cup) for a fifth time.  
  This article includes a list of related items that share the same name (or similar names). If an internal link incorrectly led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.  
  The history of Liverpool Football Club from 1892 to 1959 covers the period from the club's foundation, through their first period of success from 1900 to the 1920s, to the appointment of Bill Shankly as manager.  
  Liverpool Football Club was formed on 15 March 1892 following a disagreement between the directors of Everton Football Club and its president, John Houlding, who owned the club's ground, Anfield. A dispute over rent resulted in Everton moving to Goodison Park, which left Houlding with an empty stadium. Thus, he founded Liverpool F.C., and they joined the Lancashire League. After winning the league title in their first season, Liverpool were accepted into the Football League for the 1893–94 season, following the resignations of Accrington and Bootle.  
  The appointment of Tom Watson as the club's manager in 1896 led to the club's first period of sustained success. Liverpool consolidated their position in the Football League following promotion to the First Division, and won their first League championship in 1901. A further championship followed in 1906, and in 1914 the club reached their first FA Cup final, losing to Burnley. Watson died suddenly in 1915 of pneumonia after the outbreak of the First World War. The club won two further championships in 1922 and 1923 when football resumed after the war.  
  An expansion to the Spion Kop terracing in the 1920s increased Anfield's capacity. Liverpool's fortunes declined during the inter-war years, when the club often finished in midtable. Liverpool became League champions again in 1947, in the first season after the Second World War, but following a slow downturn in performance the club was relegated to the Second Division in 1954. By the time of Shankly's appointment in 1959, Liverpool had been in the Second Division for five seasons.  
  Liverpool's origins lie with their neighbours Everton. Founded in 1878, Everton moved to Anfield in 1884, a facility owned by the club's president, John Houlding, a former Lord Mayor of Liverpool. In 1892 a dispute arose between Houlding and the Everton board of directors, over the club's tenancy of the ground. The annual rent had risen from £100 in 1884 to £250 in 1892; Houlding wanted to sell the ground to the club, which in turn wished to agree a long-term rental.[1] Houlding would only agree to this on the basis of a rent at a level unacceptable to the club. Negotiations having failed, the directors decided to leave Anfield and find another ground, leaving Houlding with an empty stadium. His response was to form a new football club to occupy the stadium. He attempted to retain the team name "Everton" by registering the name "Everton Football Club and Athletic Grounds Company, Limited" with Companies House, but the Football League decided that the name belonged to the departed Everton club, which acquired new premises at Goodison Park. Houlding therefore adopted the name "Liverpool Football Club" for his new venture.[2]  
  Having established his new club, Houlding applied for membership of the First Division of the Football League, rather than the newly formed Second Division. The League, unimpressed with this premature application, refused to admit the club, which instead joined the Lancashire League.[3] Liverpool played their first match on 1 September 1892, a pre-season friendly match against Rotherham Town, which they won 7–1. The team Liverpool fielded against Rotherham was composed entirely of Scottish players – the players who came from Scotland to play in England in those days were known as the Scotch Professors. Manager John McKenna had recruited the players after a scouting trip to Scotland – so they became known as the "team of Macs".[4] Liverpool's first match in the Lancashire League, which they won 8–0, was against Higher Walton. 200 spectators attended the match, but as the twenty-two match season proceeded, and Liverpool continued to win, attendances increased. Approximately 2,000 people watched Liverpool defeat South Shore in the penultimate match of the season at Anfield.[5]  
  Liverpool's first season was successful, as the club narrowly won the Lancashire League title on goal average, over Blackpool. They also won the Liverpool District Cup by defeating Everton. The subsequent theft of the league and cup trophies cost the club £130 to replace them.[2] Following their success, Liverpool reapplied to the Football League. This application was successful, mainly because of the resignations of Accrington and Bootle from the Second Division. Liverpool's original strip had been blue and white chequered shirts and white shorts, similar to those of their neighbours Everton. From 1894 they changed to red shirts and white shorts.[6]  
  The club's first match in the Football League was against Middlesbrough Ironopolis on 2 September 1893, which they won 2–0, with Malcolm McVean scoring Liverpool's first goal in League football.[4] Liverpool's first season in the Football League saw them unbeaten in 28 matches, 22 of which they won. They finished at the top of the Second Division, but as at that time there was no automatic promotion to the First Division, they were entered into the test match system. This involved a knockout match with the bottom team in the First Division, Newton Heath (later renamed Manchester United). Liverpool won, and took their place in the First Division. Their stay in the division lasted only a season, as they finished in bottom position, with seven wins from thirty matches. They were relegated to the Second Division, after facing Bury in the test match and losing 1–0, despite Bury playing most of the match with ten men after their goalkeeper was sent off.[7]  
  As more people began to watch Liverpool, the ground capacity was expanded. The Main Stand was built, which helped to bring regular attendances of around 20,000. Liverpool's stay in the Second Division was brief, as they secured promotion to the First Division during the 1895–96 season – twelve wins in their final fourteen matches gave them a first-place finish, followed by success in the test matches over Small Heath (later renamed Birmingham City) and West Bromwich Albion. The club reached the semi-final of the FA Cup for the first time in the 1896–97 season; they were drawn against Aston Villa, and with Everton in the other semi-final, there was the prospect of a first all-Merseyside cup final. However, while Everton won their tie, Liverpool were defeated 3–0.[8] After winning promotion, the club appointed Tom Watson, who was managing Sunderland, as their new manager. Watson's record of three League championships in four seasons with Sunderland convinced Houlding to make Watson the highest-paid manager in England, with a yearly salary of £300.[9]  
  During the next two seasons Liverpool consolidated their place in the First Division, with fifth and ninth-place finishes. Performances improved in the 1898–99 season, when the club went into their final game with a chance of winning their first League championship. They faced Aston Villa, with whom they were level on points, although Villa's goal average advantage of 0.02 meant that they only needed to draw the match to win the League title.[10] In the event, Villa won 5–0, to leave Liverpool as the runners-up.[11] Liverpool also reached the FA Cup semi-final, where they faced Sheffield United. The match finished in a 2–2 draw; the first replay at Burnden Park also finished with the sides equal at 4–4, and a second replay at the small Fallowfield Stadium was abandoned when overcrowding caused fans to spill onto the pitch. The tie was finally decided at the Baseball Ground, which Sheffield United won 1–0.[12]  
  Liverpool won their first League championship in 1901. Integral to their success were their captain Alex Raisbeck,[13] and striker Sam Raybould. Raisbeck, a centre-half, had been signed from Hibernian in 1898. He became club captain a year later, and was often the focal point of the team, as an important defensive player and the instigator of many of Liverpool's attacks.[14] Raybould was signed from local club New Brighton Tower, and in the 1899–1900 season scored seven times as the club won nine of their last eleven matches, to finish in tenth place. He would go on to score 128 goals in 226 matches for Liverpool.[15] Success in the 1900–01 season looked unlikely in February, at which point Liverpool had lost eight games and conceded 31 goals. However, they won nine and drew three of their next twelve matches, while only conceding four goals, to achieve their first League title.[16] They were less successful in the following two seasons, finishing in eleventh and fifth places respectively.[8] The 1903–04 season saw the club relegated to the Second Division; like the previous relegation it was only for one year as they won the division the following season. On their return in the 1905–06 season they became the first team to win the Second and First Division in successive seasons.[17][18] They also reached the semi-final of the FA Cup, where they faced Everton and lost 2–0.[19]  
  Houlding died in 1902, and in 1905 the ownership of the club was restructured. Of the existing 3,000 shares, 2,000 were held by the Houlding family. The club owed a debt of £10,000 to Houlding, and a further £5,000 bank overdraft was guaranteed by his family. The family offered to give up the 2,000 shares and wipe out the debt, if the club relieved them of the bank loan guarantee. The board agreed, and a new share issue was released in 1906 with 15,000 shares available for £1 each.[20] Following the share issue, McKenna became chairman of the club.[21]  
  Following the club's successes, a new stand was erected along the Walton Breck Road end of the ground.[22] The stand became known as the Spion Kop – it was originally given this name by local journalist Ernest Edwards, the sports editor of the Liverpool Daily Post and the Echo, after a famous hill in South Africa, where a local regiment had suffered heavy losses during the Boer War. More than 300 men had died, many of them from Liverpool, as the British army attempted to capture the strategic hilltop.[23]  
  In the seasons following their second league title, Liverpool enjoyed limited success, generally finishing in midtable. They finished in second place behind Aston Villa in the 1909–10 season, the last for their captain, Raisbeck, who returned to his native Scotland to play for Partick Thistle. Liverpool's form declined after his departure, with their best performance in the League a 12th-place finish in the 1912–13 season. There was improvement in 1914 when the club reached their first FA Cup final, which they lost 1–0 to Burnley at Crystal Palace. The following season four Liverpool players were implicated in the 1915 British football betting scandal, which involved a match with Manchester United. A 2–0 victory for United was required to win the bet, in which players from both sides were involved. With the score at 2–0, Liverpool's Fred Pagnam hit the crossbar with a shot, at which several of his teammates gestured angrily towards him.[24] Subsequently, Tom Fairfoul, Tom Miller, Bob Pursell and Jackie Sheldon were found guilty by a Football Association (FA) enquiry of conspiring with three Manchester United players (Sandy Turnbull, Arthur Whalley and Enoch West) to fix a United win. All the players involved were banned for life. Following the end of the First World War, in which Turnbull was killed at the Battle of Arras in 1917, the FA lifted the surviving players' bans in recognition of their service in the conflict.[25]  
  Three weeks after visiting his hometown of Newcastle to celebrate his 56th birthday, Liverpool's manager Tom Watson developed a severe chill, which developed into pneumonia. He died on 6 May 1915; Raisbeck and two other former Liverpool stars, Ned Doig and Arthur Goddard, were pallbearers at the funeral.[26]  
  During the First World War, with normal Football League activity suspended, Liverpool competed in a regional league, the Lancashire Section.[27] The competition was split into two parts: "Principal Tournament" and the "Supplementary Competition". Liverpool won the former in the 1916–17 season, and the latter in the 1917–18 and 1918–19 seasons.[28] A number of Liverpool players fought in the war, including Philip Bratley, Robert Crawford and Wilfred Bartrop. Bartrop was the only one to be killed, dying on 7 November 1918 while fighting in Belgium.[29]  
  When football resumed after the war for the 1919–20 season, Watson's post as manager was taken by David Ashworth. Liverpool finished in fourth place. During the season George V became the first reigning monarch to watch a League match, when Liverpool played Manchester City.[30] Liverpool repeated their fourth-place finish in 1920–21. Another Scottish defender, Donald McKinlay, was given the captaincy from January 1922 to 1928.[31][13] Liverpool regained the League championship in the 1921–22 season. Liverpool had looked certain title winners, before the loss of three of their last six games put their chances in doubt. A 4–1 victory over West Bromwich Albion in the last match of the season was enough to secure Liverpool's third League championship.[32]  
  Ashworth left Liverpool midway through the following season, to manage Oldham Athletic – he wished to be closer to his wife and daughter, who lived in nearby Stockport.[33] His replacement was the former Liverpool player Matt McQueen, a club director. McQueen was intended as a temporary appointment, but he kept the job as Liverpool retained the League championship.[34] This success owed much to the form of their goalkeeper Elisha Scott, who conceded only 31 goals during the season, a league record at the time.[35] Liverpool's total of 60 points in the season equalled the record set by West Bromwich Albion three seasons earlier.[36] Harry Chambers top scored in the first four post World War 1 seasons including the two title wins.[37]  
  Following their successive championships, Liverpool's fortunes declined as their side aged. Some of the players had begun their careers before the war; goalkeeper Scott had been in the side since 1912.[38] The club began the 1923–24 season aiming to win three league titles in a row, but finished in twelfth place. They achieved fourth place the following season, which was to be their best finish until after the Second World War.[36] Changes to the offside rule in the 1925–26 season resulted in an increase in the number of goals scored during matches.[39] Liverpool contributed to this, with big victories over Manchester United and Newcastle United, but could only manage a seventh-place finish.[40]  
  In 1920, the Kop had been redesigned and extended to hold 30,000 spectators, all standing.[41] At the time, the Kop was the biggest football stand in the country, able to hold more spectators than the entire capacity of some grounds.[42] The increase in spectators did not fully restore Liverpool's fortunes; they scored 90 goals during the 1928–29 season, striker Gordon Hodgson scoring thirty of them, yet finished in fifth place. McQueen was unable to replicate his early triumphs with the club, and retired in 1928 after his leg was amputated following a road accident.[43] He was replaced as manager by club secretary George Patterson.[44] The club's fortunes did not improve under Patterson's leadership; they generally finished midtable. Their results were inconsistent; in September 1930, they lost 7–0 at West Ham United, yet nine days later they beat Bolton Wanderers 7–2 at Anfield.[45]  
  During the 1930s Liverpool's form continued to deteriorate, and they avoided relegation in the 1933–34 season by only four points. Scott left the club at the end of what had been a poor season for the veteran goalkeeper. In ten matches from the start of 1934, Liverpool won only once with Scott in goal, and after a 9–2 defeat against Newcastle United, he was replaced by Arthur Riley. The change of goalkeepers brought an upturn in form, with a 6–2 victory over Birmingham City and a 4–1 win against Middlesbrough. Scott, who joined Belfast Celtic after 24 years at Liverpool, remains the club's longest-serving player.[46] As they became used to finishing in the lower part of the league table, Liverpool began to lose their best players. Hodgson, who had scored 233 goals in 358 league games, was sold to Aston Villa in 1936 and the club struggled to replace him. They finished 19th in the season following his departure. Also in 1936, Patterson resigned as manager for health reasons, and resumed his role as the club's secretary.[44] His replacement, Southampton manager George Kay, did not initially fare much better; Liverpool narrowly avoided relegation in the 1936–37 season, and finished in 11th place in each of the following two seasons. By the outbreak of the Second World War, Liverpool had become accustomed to finishing midtable.[32]  
  Soon after the outbreak of war in 1939, the 1939–40 season was cancelled and all first-class football in Britain temporarily suspended. When matches resumed, competitions were played on a regional basis as in the previous war, and teams often did not complete a full season. Liverpool participated in the Football League North, which they won in the 1942–43 season.[47] Many footballers served in the armed forces, away from their clubs for long periods, and would often appear as "guests" for other clubs. Two Liverpool players were decorated for their wartime service; Berry Nieuwenhuys received the Czech Medal of Merit, and Bill Jones was awarded the Military Medal after rescuing wounded comrades under fire.[27]  
  League football in England resumed in the 1946–47 season, after seven seasons' suspension due to the war. Before the resumption, Liverpool embarked on an eight-week tour of the United States and Canada, scoring 70 goals in the ten matches played. In escaping from post-war food rationing while on tour, the Liverpool players were able to eat more, and by the end of the trip had gained in weight an average of 7 pounds (3.2 kg) a man. The New York Times reporter who followed the team on the tour noted the "perceptible gain in strength on the playing field."[48]  
  The first game played at Anfield after the war was against Middlesbrough, on 4 September 1946, which Liverpool lost 1–0 before a crowd of 34,140.[49] Despite this defeat, Liverpool finished the 1946–47 season as League champions captained again by a Scot, Willie Fagan.[13] Vital to this success were their attacking players; after a 5–0 defeat to Manchester United the club bought Albert Stubbins from Newcastle United, to augment the attack alongside Jack Balmer and Billy Liddell. Stubbins and Balmer joined top scored with 24 league goals and Balmer scoring hat-tricks in three successive matches.[50]  
  The club were unable to match this success in the two seasons that followed, and finished in 11th and 12th places respectively.[51] The 1949–50 season brought another disappointing league campaign. The season started well, as the club was unbeaten in their first 19 matches and was top of the league at the turn of the year. Their form declined thereafter, and they finished eighth. This did not hinder their progress in the FA Cup, as they reached their second final (their first at Wembley), against Arsenal. They were unable to win their first FA Cup; two goals from Arsenal striker Reg Lewis meant Liverpool lost 2–0.[52]  
  After their FA Cup final appearance, Liverpool's fortunes declined steadily. Kay resigned through ill-health, and was replaced by Don Welsh.[43] Welsh's first season did not go smoothly, as Liverpool were knocked out of the FA Cup in the third round by Norwich City of the Third Division South.[53] The following year, 61,905 spectators watched Liverpool beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 2–1 in the fourth round of the FA Cup, the biggest attendance ever recorded at Anfield.[54][55] Under Welsh's stewardship the club gradually slipped further down the table, and were relegated to the Second Division in the 1953–54 season, after finishing in bottom place. Their relegation came after 50 uninterrupted years in the top division of English football.[56]  
  Liverpool's first season in the Second Division in 1954–55 brought them an 11th-place finish.[57] During this season the club suffered the biggest defeat in its history, a 9–1 loss to Birmingham City.[58] Although in the following season they improved to third place, it was not enough for Welsh to keep his job and he was sacked at the end of the season. His replacement was Phil Taylor, a former captain of the club and a member of the coaching staff.[59] Taylor signed players such as Ronnie Moran, Alan A'Court and Jimmy Melia, who would become mainstays of the club for seasons to come, but was unable to guide Liverpool back to the First Division. The Liverpool board persisted with him, despite the club's loss to non-League side Worcester City in the third round of the FA Cup in January 1959.[60] His tenure ended during the 1959–60 season; after a good start, their form began to tail off mid-season, and after a defeat to Huddersfield Town, Taylor resigned. The man who replaced him was Huddersfield's manager, Bill Shankly.[61]  
  Kelly, Stephen F. (1988). The Official Illustrated History of Liverpool FC: You'll Never Walk Alone. London: Queen Anne Press. ISBN 0-356-19594-5.  
  Liversedge, Stan (1991). Liverpool: The Official Centenary History, 1892–1992. London: Hamlyn Publishing Group. ISBN 0-600-57308-7.  
  Pead, Brian (1986). Liverpool: A Complete Record 1892–1986. Derby: Breedon Books. ISBN 0-907969-15-1.  
  Williams, John (2010). Reds: Liverpool Football Club – The Biography. Edinburgh: Mainstream Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84596-682-9.  
  ^ "Attendances". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 12 September 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.  
  ^ "Matches". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 12 September 2015. Retrieved 5 August 2015.  
  These Merseyside clubs play in fully professional leagues, comprising levels 1–4 of the English football league system: the Premier League and the Football League. Following the relegation of Tranmere in 2015, Everton and Liverpool became the only two remaining Merseyside teams in professional leagues. Matches between them are known as the Merseyside derby. However, Tranmere Rovers returned to the Football League after three seasons away, thanks to a 2-1 victory in the 2018 National League play-off final against Boreham Wood at Wembley. The 2018/19 season saw them advance through the League Two playoffs, and reach League One. The club were relegated to League Two in the 2019/20 season on a points per game basis due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  These Merseyside clubs play in semi-pro leagues which are at a level in the English football league system that grants eligibility to enter the FA Trophy, comprising levels 5–8 of the system: the National League and the Northern Premier League. Games between Southport, Marine and Bootle are known as Sefton Derby's as they represent the three biggest towns in Sefton; Southport, Bootle and Crosby.  
  These Merseyside clubs play in semi-pro and amateur leagues which grant eligibility to enter the FA Vase and are high enough in the English football league system to grant eligibility to enter the FA Cup, comprising levels 9–10 of the system. In Merseyside this consists solely of the North West Counties Football League.  
  As of the end of the 2022–23 season, the team have spent 108 seasons in the top tier of the English football league system and eleven in the second. The table details the team's achievements and the top goalscorer in senior first-team competitions from their first in the Lancashire League and FA Cup during the 1892–93 season to the end of the most recently completed season. Details of the abandoned 1939–40 season and unofficial Second World War leagues are not included.  
  Liverpool F.C. were formed in 1892, following a rent dispute between the leaseholder of Anfield, John Houlding, and Everton Football Club, which left Houlding with a ground but no club playing in it. In their first season Liverpool won the Lancashire League, and were elected to the Football League Second Division for the 1893–94 season,[3] going on to win the title without losing a match.[4] Their first season in the First Division ended in relegation, before they were promoted back the following season. Liverpool won the First Division for the first time in the 1900–01 season,[2] and reached their first |FA Cup Final in 1914, losing 1–0 to Burnley. They won their first back-to-back titles in the 1921–22 and 1922–23 seasons; this was their last success until the 1946–47 season, when they regained the league title. Relegated in the 1953–54 season, they did not regain their place in the First Division until the 1962–63 season under the management of Bill Shankly.[5]  
  Peacetime competitions were suspended during the First World War. Liverpool competed in the Lancashire Section pr. from 1915–16 to 1918–19.  
  Peacetime competitions were suspended during the Second World War. Liverpool participated in wartime leagues until 1945–46.  
  ^ Goal tallies are for the competitions listed only; friendly matches are not included. Divisions are not sorted alphabetically, but based on their placing in the English football league system at that time.  
  ^ From 1896–97 until 1980–81, two points were awarded for a win, and one for a draw. From the 1981–82 season onwards, three points have been awarded for a win.[10]  
  ^ Liverpool were relegated after losing 1–0 to Blackburn Rovers in a test match.  
  ^ Liverpool were promoted after winning two and drawing one of four test matches, which were played at home and away against Small Heath and West Bromwich Albion.  
  ^ a b c d e From 1939 to 1993, in the event of a draw, the Charity Shield would be shared between the two competing teams, with each team having possession of the trophy for six months.  
  ^ a b "Honours". Liverpool F.C. Retrieved 15 January 2012.  
  ^ Williams, John (2001). "Out of the Blue and into the Red: The Early Liverpool Years". In Williams, John; Long, Cathy; Hopkins, Stephen (eds.). Passing Rhythms: Liverpool FC and the Transformation of Football. Oxford: Berg. ISBN 1-85973-303-4.  
  ^ Pead, Brian (1986). Liverpool A complete record 1892-1986. Breedon Books Sport. ISBN 0-907969-15-1.  
  Latest updates  
  Match-by-match projections in the title racepublished at 17:55  
  17:55  
  Manchester City are in typically formidable post-Christmas form as they aim for an English top-flight record of four consecutive titles. They have 10 wins from 13 league games since December's 1-0 defeat by Aston Villa.  
  As for Liverpool, the 3-1 loss at Arsenal on 4 February remains their only league defeat in nine games so far in 2024. Jurgen Klopp's team still have a trip to Goodison Park for the Merseyside derby to fit into a busy schedule.  
  On Arsenal, although are top of the table, Simon Gleave, head of analysis at Nielsen's Gracenote says their Euro Club Index simulations have the title battle as a "two-horse race", rating City and Liverpool higher as well as the Gunners having "trickier" fixtures.  
  He said: "Arsenal have six matches left against teams in the Premier League's top half but five of those are away from home. Manchester City and Liverpool also both have six matches remaining against teams in the top half of the Premier League, but four of City's are at home and half of Liverpool's are."  
  Liverpool v Brighton: Pick of the statspublished at 16:40  
  16:40  
  Here are the key statistics before Liverpool host Brighton on Sunday.  
  Brighton are unbeaten in their past three away league games against Liverpool, having only avoided defeat in two of their previous 11 visits to Anfield.  
  Jurgen Klopp's side are unbeaten in their past 26 Premier League home games since a 2-1 loss to Leeds United in October 2022.  
  Since the start of last season, 11 of Brighton’s 12 league away wins have been against sides in the bottom half of the table, with the exception being a win at Arsenal last May. Under Roberto de Zerbi, the Seagulls have taken just five points from 33 available away from home against sides in the top 10.  
  Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah is averaging a goal or assist every 76 minutes in the this season - the best rate of anyone to play at least 180 minutes in the competition this term.  
  Salah needs an assist to become the first player in Premier League history to reach double figures for both goals and assists in three consecutive campaigns.  
  Brighton beat Nottingham Forest in their last league game but have not managed consecutive victories since a run of three in September.  
  What Hughes will bring to Liverpoolpublished at 11:56  
  11:56  
  Ian Dennis BBC Radio 5 Live senior football reporter  
  Liverpool's incoming sporting director Richard Hughes began his playing days as a junior for Atalanta in Italy before moving back to the UK at 18. He also worked as a co-commentator for BT Sport upon retirement from playing, regularly on the big Sunday night games from Serie A.  
  His father, Kevin, was an agent and scout based in Milan and represented his son throughout his playing career. Des Taylor, former Bournemouth chief scout, says that was "hugely important in Richard's development because he had a mentor in his father who understood how to identify a player, but also how to negotiate a contract".  
  "Richard is multi-lingual - fluent in Italian and French - and he has a high academic IQ but also an extremely high footballing IQ in terms of leadership, negotiation and technical observation," Taylor added.  
  He believes the transition from Jurgen Klopp and his backroom staff, including short-term sporting director Jorg Schmadtke, will be "easier than people anticipate" given the respect Hughes has in the game, his network of contacts and the autonomy he has been given at Bournemouth.  
  "Richard isn't data-led or data-driven, but he's data-influenced, which is pivotal to the blueprint that Michael Edwards has implemented at Liverpool," said Taylor.  
  Taylor, head of football operations for an American capital investment fund, believes Hughes will already have his "preferred candidates" to succeed Klopp.  
  Bayer Leverkusen manager and former Reds midfielder Xabi Alonso is among the favourites for the job, and his Spanish agent Inaki Ibanez is a close connection of Hughes, given he also represents Bournemouth boss Andoni Iraola.  
  Hughes is also known to be an admirer of Brighton manager Roberto de Zerbi and had identified him as a potential replacement when Scott Parker left Bournemouth - but his contract situation with Shakhtar Donetsk at the time proved problematic.  
  Taylor added: "There is no doubt in my mind that Richard will be a success at Liverpool. With Michael by his side, he will flourish".  
  'Kelleher gives confidence to Liverpool's defence'published at 10:49  
  10:49  
  Former Liverpool goalkeeper Paul Jones says Caoimhin Kelleher has taken his chance for the Reds, after the long-term injury to Alisson.  
  Jones has been impressed with the way Kelleher has stepped up and told BBC Radio Merseyside's Total Sport programme the 25-year-old is now recognised as a top stopper in his own right.  
  "Losing Alisson, you are thinking it's going to be tough gloves to fill. But he has come in - obviously he was tremendous in the League Cup final - and his confidence since then has been unbelievable," said Jones.  
  "He gives confidence to the back four and he has made saves at the right time. He has done brilliantly.  
  "He is still 25, so he is learning the game still. He has got a great keeper to learn from.  
  "When you get your chance, that's what you have to do and he has done that and that's put him on the map himself.  
  "I am sure Jurgen is very happy he has got two very good keepers coming into this last run of games in the final part of the season."  
  Gossip: Liverpool fancy De Zerbi as Alonso alternativepublished at 07:49  
  07:49  
  As well as both clubs retaining an interest in Bayer Leverkusen manager Xabi Alonso, Liverpool and Bayern Munich are keen on Brighton coach Roberto de Zerbi as an alternative. (Bild - in German), external  
  Luis Diaz's father says "hope has not yet been lost" about Liverpool's Colombia winger, 27, playing in Spain. (Cadena SER - in Spanish), external  
  The three things Reds need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 13:03 26 March  
  13:03 26 March  
  Jordan Chamberlain Fan writer  
  Liverpool remain within touching distance of the Premier League title and Europa League trophy, but if they are to finish Jurgen Klopp's tenure on a high they will need three things to happen:  
  Better luck with injuries  
  During extra time against Manchester United, Liverpool had nothing left - mentally or physically. That is why the decisions and game-management was so poor.  
  They had been fighting tooth and nail for 18 days with bit-part players - and winning - but that does not last forever. While Bobby Clarke, James McConnell and Caoimhin Kelleher have been excellent, we need Trent Alexander-Arnold, Curtis Jones and Alisson back and fit.  
  The Reds need to stay healthy if we are to win the Premier League and the Europa League.  
  Referees must be brave with the big calls  
  In big matches against rivals this season, Liverpool have been stung. You have the shocking situation of Luis Diaz cancelled goal against Tottenham (combined with two red cards in that match), and the failure to award Liverpool a penalty when Arsenal came to Anfield for Martin Odegaard's handball. Then, there's Jeremy Doku's last-minute karate kick on Alexis Mac Allister that was outrageously deemed a coming together against Manchester City. Liverpool need much better officiating when it matters.  
  Win the easy games easy  
  For all their excitement, the last-minute victory over Nottingham Forest and fight-backs against Luton Town and Fulham use up emotional energy. Every game feels like a battle to the death.  
  Liverpool need to take a leaf out of Arsenal and City's book. Score a few early goals, then keep the ball in the second half.  
  Job done. Save the hero-jobs for when it really matters and we have to go to the well in May.  
  Gossip: Reds join the race for Chiesapublished at 08:00 26 March  
  08:00 26 March  
  Meanwhile, Liverpool owners Fenway Sports Group and new football chief Michael Edwards are exploring a deal to purchase Ligue 1 club Toulouse. (Football Insider), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  'Diaz's goalscoring has got to improve' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:04 25 March  
  13:04 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Nathan: Injuries are the only thing that have tainted an almost perfect farewell season for Klopp. With a fully fit squad we would have walked, or maybe relaxed jogged, to a quadruple.  
  Fraser: Drawing several games that Liverpool really should have won. The ones that come to mind are the games against Luton away and Manchester United at home. If we had won either or both of those games, Liverpool would have been well ahead in the title race. I hope those results don't come back to bite us.  
  Colin: VAR. With the title race being so tight, we could end up losing the title because of the mistake made against Tottenham. This wasn't a subjective call - it was a basic error which could decide who wins the title.  
  Robel: With out a shadow of doubt, it's the inconsistency of referee decisions or how VAR was applied. Liverpool should have been at least six points clear at the top. Instead, the league winner is being decided by clear and obvious referee mistakes. Not a good look for the league. I don't think Howard Webb's show is making it any better.  
  Matt: Luis Diaz's finishing. So many games should have been dead and buried long before they were but haven't been because he's so inconsistent in his finishing. Not criticising his effort or endeavour but his goalscoring has got to improve.  
  Toby: Simple. Klopp leaving.  
  Where does Alexander-Arnold fit into Southgate's team?published at 11:01 25 March  
  11:01 25 March  
  Gareth Southgate says it is "really frustrating" that Trent Alexander-Arnold is not fit enough to play in this last international break before this summer's European Championship.  
  The England boss would have liked to have played Alexander-Arnold in midfield, where he has also played for Liverpool at times this season, but he remains sidelined with a knee injury.  
  "We have missed two opportunities, with September and now this one," said Southgate.  
  "There is so much that is unknown about it at the minute."  
  Where Alexander-Arnold fits into Southgate's team remains unanswered.  
  Manchester City's Kyle Walker - if fit - is the first-choice right-back and even then, the general consensus would be for the Reds player to move into midfield, where in particular Real Madrid's Jude Bellingham and Declan Rice of Arsenal are established starters.  
  "I have liked the idea for a long time but we are going to be trialling it when we have not seen it in a really high-level game," added Southgate.  
  "So we will just have to see where we can go with it."  
  Gossip: Guimaraes boosts Reds hopespublished at 07:55 25 March  
  'A good opportunity for Hughes' - Iraolapublished at 18:01 22 March  
  18:01 22 March  
  Andoni Iraola has wished technical director Richard Hughes well after he was appointed sporting director for Liverpool from the end of the season.  
  However, the Bournemouth boss is confident the succession planning at Vitality Stadium means he will not be missed.  
  "We knew some weeks ago he was leaving," Iraola told BBC Radio Solent. "He has been very important in establishing me here and I wish him all the best.  
  "It is a good opportunity for him and I hope he does well.  
  "But the club will continue working in the same way. Simon [Francis] was working with him last year and knows exactly what this club means."  
  Iraola would not be drawn on whether Hughes may return to the Cherries to poach any of their talent for Liverpool, laughing and adding: "We have not talked about any players specifically but you never know!  
  "We don't know what is going to happen when the market opens in the summer."  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  Gossip: Reds join race for Rodrygopublished at 08:15 22 March  
  The Reds are planning to allow former Cameroon defender Joel Matip, 32, ex-Spain midfielder Thiago Alcantara, 32, and Spanish keeper Adrian, 37, to leave this summer. (Football Insider, external)  
  Netherlands midfielder Teun Koopmeiners has told his Italian club Atalanta he wants to leave this summer, with the 26-year-old having been linked with Liverpool. (Metro, external)  
  What's your biggest gripe this season?published at 10:21 21 March  
  10:21 21 March  
  As we approach the business end, we want to know the most irritating thing at your club this season.  
  Has it been a player failing to deliver, injury woes, inconsistent form... or something else?  
  Liverpool  
  Follow LiverpoolFollowing  
  Follow Liverpool  
  close panel  
  You are now following Liverpool  
  Latest updates from your Sport topics will appear in My Sport in the BBC Sport App and in a collection on the BBC homepage.  
  Latest updates  
  Match-by-match projections in the title racepublished at 17:55  
  17:55  
  Manchester City are in typically formidable post-Christmas form as they aim for an English top-flight record of four consecutive titles. They have 10 wins from 13 league games since December's 1-0 defeat by Aston Villa.  
  As for Liverpool, the 3-1 loss at Arsenal on 4 February remains their only league defeat in nine games so far in 2024. Jurgen Klopp's team still have a trip to Goodison Park for the Merseyside derby to fit into a busy schedule.  
  On Arsenal, although are top of the table, Simon Gleave, head of analysis at Nielsen's Gracenote says their Euro Club Index simulations have the title battle as a "two-horse race", rating City and Liverpool higher as well as the Gunners having "trickier" fixtures.  
  He said: "Arsenal have six matches left against teams in the Premier League's top half but five of those are away from home. Manchester City and Liverpool also both have six matches remaining against teams in the top half of the Premier League, but four of City's are at home and half of Liverpool's are."  
  Liverpool v Brighton: Pick of the statspublished at 16:40  
  16:40  
  Here are the key statistics before Liverpool host Brighton on Sunday.  
  Brighton are unbeaten in their past three away league games against Liverpool, having only avoided defeat in two of their previous 11 visits to Anfield.  
  Jurgen Klopp's side are unbeaten in their past 26 Premier League home games since a 2-1 loss to Leeds United in October 2022.  
  Since the start of last season, 11 of Brighton’s 12 league away wins have been against sides in the bottom half of the table, with the exception being a win at Arsenal last May. Under Roberto de Zerbi, the Seagulls have taken just five points from 33 available away from home against sides in the top 10.  
  Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah is averaging a goal or assist every 76 minutes in the this season - the best rate of anyone to play at least 180 minutes in the competition this term.  
  Salah needs an assist to become the first player in Premier League history to reach double figures for both goals and assists in three consecutive campaigns.  
  Brighton beat Nottingham Forest in their last league game but have not managed consecutive victories since a run of three in September.  
  What Hughes will bring to Liverpoolpublished at 11:56  
  11:56  
  Ian Dennis BBC Radio 5 Live senior football reporter  
  Liverpool's incoming sporting director Richard Hughes began his playing days as a junior for Atalanta in Italy before moving back to the UK at 18. He also worked as a co-commentator for BT Sport upon retirement from playing, regularly on the big Sunday night games from Serie A.  
  His father, Kevin, was an agent and scout based in Milan and represented his son throughout his playing career. Des Taylor, former Bournemouth chief scout, says that was "hugely important in Richard's development because he had a mentor in his father who understood how to identify a player, but also how to negotiate a contract".  
  "Richard is multi-lingual - fluent in Italian and French - and he has a high academic IQ but also an extremely high footballing IQ in terms of leadership, negotiation and technical observation," Taylor added.  
  He believes the transition from Jurgen Klopp and his backroom staff, including short-term sporting director Jorg Schmadtke, will be "easier than people anticipate" given the respect Hughes has in the game, his network of contacts and the autonomy he has been given at Bournemouth.  
  "Richard isn't data-led or data-driven, but he's data-influenced, which is pivotal to the blueprint that Michael Edwards has implemented at Liverpool," said Taylor.  
  Taylor, head of football operations for an American capital investment fund, believes Hughes will already have his "preferred candidates" to succeed Klopp.  
  Bayer Leverkusen manager and former Reds midfielder Xabi Alonso is among the favourites for the job, and his Spanish agent Inaki Ibanez is a close connection of Hughes, given he also represents Bournemouth boss Andoni Iraola.  
  Hughes is also known to be an admirer of Brighton manager Roberto de Zerbi and had identified him as a potential replacement when Scott Parker left Bournemouth - but his contract situation with Shakhtar Donetsk at the time proved problematic.  
  Taylor added: "There is no doubt in my mind that Richard will be a success at Liverpool. With Michael by his side, he will flourish".  
  'Kelleher gives confidence to Liverpool's defence'published at 10:49  
  10:49  
  Former Liverpool goalkeeper Paul Jones says Caoimhin Kelleher has taken his chance for the Reds, after the long-term injury to Alisson.  
  Jones has been impressed with the way Kelleher has stepped up and told BBC Radio Merseyside's Total Sport programme the 25-year-old is now recognised as a top stopper in his own right.  
  "Losing Alisson, you are thinking it's going to be tough gloves to fill. But he has come in - obviously he was tremendous in the League Cup final - and his confidence since then has been unbelievable," said Jones.  
  "He gives confidence to the back four and he has made saves at the right time. He has done brilliantly.  
  "He is still 25, so he is learning the game still. He has got a great keeper to learn from.  
  "When you get your chance, that's what you have to do and he has done that and that's put him on the map himself.  
  "I am sure Jurgen is very happy he has got two very good keepers coming into this last run of games in the final part of the season."  
  Gossip: Liverpool fancy De Zerbi as Alonso alternativepublished at 07:49  
  07:49  
  As well as both clubs retaining an interest in Bayer Leverkusen manager Xabi Alonso, Liverpool and Bayern Munich are keen on Brighton coach Roberto de Zerbi as an alternative. (Bild - in German), external  
  Luis Diaz's father says "hope has not yet been lost" about Liverpool's Colombia winger, 27, playing in Spain. (Cadena SER - in Spanish), external  
  The three things Reds need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 13:03 26 March  
  13:03 26 March  
  Jordan Chamberlain Fan writer  
  Liverpool remain within touching distance of the Premier League title and Europa League trophy, but if they are to finish Jurgen Klopp's tenure on a high they will need three things to happen:  
  Better luck with injuries  
  During extra time against Manchester United, Liverpool had nothing left - mentally or physically. That is why the decisions and game-management was so poor.  
  They had been fighting tooth and nail for 18 days with bit-part players - and winning - but that does not last forever. While Bobby Clarke, James McConnell and Caoimhin Kelleher have been excellent, we need Trent Alexander-Arnold, Curtis Jones and Alisson back and fit.  
  The Reds need to stay healthy if we are to win the Premier League and the Europa League.  
  Referees must be brave with the big calls  
  In big matches against rivals this season, Liverpool have been stung. You have the shocking situation of Luis Diaz cancelled goal against Tottenham (combined with two red cards in that match), and the failure to award Liverpool a penalty when Arsenal came to Anfield for Martin Odegaard's handball. Then, there's Jeremy Doku's last-minute karate kick on Alexis Mac Allister that was outrageously deemed a coming together against Manchester City. Liverpool need much better officiating when it matters.  
  Win the easy games easy  
  For all their excitement, the last-minute victory over Nottingham Forest and fight-backs against Luton Town and Fulham use up emotional energy. Every game feels like a battle to the death.  
  Liverpool need to take a leaf out of Arsenal and City's book. Score a few early goals, then keep the ball in the second half.  
  Job done. Save the hero-jobs for when it really matters and we have to go to the well in May.  
  Gossip: Reds join the race for Chiesapublished at 08:00 26 March  
  08:00 26 March  
  Meanwhile, Liverpool owners Fenway Sports Group and new football chief Michael Edwards are exploring a deal to purchase Ligue 1 club Toulouse. (Football Insider), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  'Diaz's goalscoring has got to improve' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:04 25 March  
  13:04 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Nathan: Injuries are the only thing that have tainted an almost perfect farewell season for Klopp. With a fully fit squad we would have walked, or maybe relaxed jogged, to a quadruple.  
  Fraser: Drawing several games that Liverpool really should have won. The ones that come to mind are the games against Luton away and Manchester United at home. If we had won either or both of those games, Liverpool would have been well ahead in the title race. I hope those results don't come back to bite us.  
  Colin: VAR. With the title race being so tight, we could end up losing the title because of the mistake made against Tottenham. This wasn't a subjective call - it was a basic error which could decide who wins the title.  
  Robel: With out a shadow of doubt, it's the inconsistency of referee decisions or how VAR was applied. Liverpool should have been at least six points clear at the top. Instead, the league winner is being decided by clear and obvious referee mistakes. Not a good look for the league. I don't think Howard Webb's show is making it any better.  
  Matt: Luis Diaz's finishing. So many games should have been dead and buried long before they were but haven't been because he's so inconsistent in his finishing. Not criticising his effort or endeavour but his goalscoring has got to improve.  
  Toby: Simple. Klopp leaving.  
  Where does Alexander-Arnold fit into Southgate's team?published at 11:01 25 March  
  11:01 25 March  
  Gareth Southgate says it is "really frustrating" that Trent Alexander-Arnold is not fit enough to play in this last international break before this summer's European Championship.  
  The England boss would have liked to have played Alexander-Arnold in midfield, where he has also played for Liverpool at times this season, but he remains sidelined with a knee injury.  
  "We have missed two opportunities, with September and now this one," said Southgate.  
  "There is so much that is unknown about it at the minute."  
  Where Alexander-Arnold fits into Southgate's team remains unanswered.  
  Manchester City's Kyle Walker - if fit - is the first-choice right-back and even then, the general consensus would be for the Reds player to move into midfield, where in particular Real Madrid's Jude Bellingham and Declan Rice of Arsenal are established starters.  
  "I have liked the idea for a long time but we are going to be trialling it when we have not seen it in a really high-level game," added Southgate.  
  "So we will just have to see where we can go with it."  
  Gossip: Guimaraes boosts Reds hopespublished at 07:55 25 March  
  'A good opportunity for Hughes' - Iraolapublished at 18:01 22 March  
  18:01 22 March  
  Andoni Iraola has wished technical director Richard Hughes well after he was appointed sporting director for Liverpool from the end of the season.  
  However, the Bournemouth boss is confident the succession planning at Vitality Stadium means he will not be missed.  
  "We knew some weeks ago he was leaving," Iraola told BBC Radio Solent. "He has been very important in establishing me here and I wish him all the best.  
  "It is a good opportunity for him and I hope he does well.  
  "But the club will continue working in the same way. Simon [Francis] was working with him last year and knows exactly what this club means."  
  Iraola would not be drawn on whether Hughes may return to the Cherries to poach any of their talent for Liverpool, laughing and adding: "We have not talked about any players specifically but you never know!  
  "We don't know what is going to happen when the market opens in the summer."  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  Gossip: Reds join race for Rodrygopublished at 08:15 22 March  
  The Reds are planning to allow former Cameroon defender Joel Matip, 32, ex-Spain midfielder Thiago Alcantara, 32, and Spanish keeper Adrian, 37, to leave this summer. (Football Insider, external)  
  Netherlands midfielder Teun Koopmeiners has told his Italian club Atalanta he wants to leave this summer, with the 26-year-old having been linked with Liverpool. (Metro, external)  
  What's your biggest gripe this season?published at 10:21 21 March  
  10:21 21 March  
  As we approach the business end, we want to know the most irritating thing at your club this season.  
  Has it been a player failing to deliver, injury woes, inconsistent form... or something else?  
  More from Football  
  The style with which Roberto De Zerbi goes about his business demands that the Brighton boss be considered for the biggest jobs. Is Liverpool that job?  
  How escape-room specialist and unlikely favourite Wataru Endo helped solve Liverpool's midfield problem and could now hold the key to Jurgen Klopp bowing out in style.  
  Andy Robertson was forced off with an ankle injury during Scotland's friendly with Northern Ireland on Tuesday.  
  Sven-Goran Eriksson realised his dream to manage Liverpool as he took charge of the club for a charity legends game against Ajax on an emotional day at Anfield.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  Sky Germany's Florian Plettenberg explains that if Xabi Alonso leaves Bayer Leverkusen this summer, he will join Bayern Munich over Liverpool.  
  Bayern Munich's honorary president Uli Hoeness has claimed his club, Liverpool and Real Madrid are all "working" on a deal to appoint Xabi Alonso as their next manager.  
  How escape-room specialist and unlikely favourite Wataru Endo helped solve Liverpool's midfield problem and could now hold the key to Jurgen Klopp bowing out in style.  
  Estoril head coach Vasco Seabra discusses taking the club to their first cup final in 80 years and what he learned from working with Liverpool's Diogo Jota.  
  Ahead of what could be their final game against each other, we examine how the rivalry between Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola has shaped their teams - and their careers.  
  From a dictating deep role to scoring as a No 8, Alexis Mac Allister has been a key player in Liverpool's trophy push - but where will he play at Wembley?  
  Liverpool  
  Read the latest Liverpool news, transfer rumours, match reports, fixtures and live scores from the Guardian  
  Sven-Göran Eriksson says he cried during the Liverpool match against Ajax as he fulfilled a life-long dream of coaching the Reds  
  The title is still up for grabs as the big three enter final turn and the last of the meetings between the contenders will be vital  
  Childhood fan who is dying of pancreatic cancer managed the home side to victory over Ajax at Anfield in a legends match  
  Sven-Goran Eriksson will take charge of the Liverpool Legends team in a charity match against Ajax at Anfield  
  Jamie Cassidy was sentenced to 13 years and three months for his part in an international drug operation  
  Spaniard has become bookies’ favourite to replace Jürgen Klopp at Liverpool, with Bayern Munich also interested in the Leverkusen manager  
  Liverpool defender is back with England for first time since an injury at St George’s Park in 2020 that kept him out for months  
  Liverpool have appointed Richard Hughes, the Bournemouth technical director, as their new sporting director  
  Two Manchester United fans have been arrested in connection with tragedy chanting during Sunday’s FA Cup quarter-final against Liverpool  
  The manager believed his team can ‘beat any opponent’ after their Cup victory while the loss ended Liverpool’s dreams of a quadruple in Jürgen Klopp’s final season  
  Liverpool FC  
  English football club  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  What is Liverpool FC?  
  Liverpool FC is an English professional football (soccer) club based in Liverpool, England. It is the most successful English team in European football tournament history, having won six European Cup/Champions League trophies. The club has also won the English top-division league title 19 times.  
  Why was Liverpool FC founded?  
  Liverpool FC was formed following a dispute between Everton FC and Anfield stadium’s owner, John Houlding. It resulted in Everton FC moving to Goodison Park and Houlding forming a new team that eventually became Liverpool FC. The new club played its first game in 1892 and won its first league title in the 1900–01 season.  
  Why was Liverpool FC banned from European competition in 1985?  
  Liverpool FC was banned from European competition for six years after an incident where 39 fans were killed at Heysel Stadium as a result of the collapse of a stadium wall when Liverpool fans charged Juventus supporters in 1985.  
  How many Liverpool FC fans died as a result of the Hillsborough disaster?  
  In 1989 during a Football Association Cup semifinal match at the Hillsborough stadium in Sheffield, a crush of people resulted in 97 deaths and hundreds of injuries. (A total of 95 people died in 1989; two others died later as a result of their injuries, in 1993 and 2021.) It was England’s deadliest sporting disaster.  
  Liverpool FC, English professional football (soccer) club based in Liverpool. It is the most successful English team in European football tournament history, having won six European Cup/Champions League trophies. The club has also won the English top-division league title 19 times.  
  Everton FC was the first football team to play in the Anfield stadium that is famous today as Liverpool FC’s historic home. A dispute between Everton and the site’s owner, John Houlding, resulted in Everton moving to Goodison Park and Houlding forming a new team that was eventually named Liverpool FC. The new club played its first game in 1892 and won its first league title in the 1900–01 season. In 1906 Anfield’s newly constructed terrace grandstand was christened Spion Kop for its resemblance to a hill where a famous South African War battle had been fought, which led to the well-known “Kopites” nickname for Liverpool’s fans.  
  Two managers, Bill Shankly (1959–74) and Bob Paisley (1974–83), were responsible for much of Liverpool’s success. Shankly took Liverpool from the English second division to win three English top-division league titles (1963–64, 1965–66, and 1972–73), as well as a Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) Cup victory in 1973. Paisley added a second UEFA Cup in 1976, six English league titles, and three European Cup wins (1977, 1978, and 1981). A fourth European Cup victory came in 1984, and Liverpool reached the final the following year against Juventus at the Heysel Stadium in Belgium. The match was marred by tragedy as 39 fans were killed, primarily by the collapse of a stadium wall that was caused by Liverpool fans charging Juventus supporters. Liverpool was banned from European competition for six years—and all English clubs were banned for five years—after the incident. Another tragedy struck the club in 1989 when, during a Football Association (FA) Cup semifinal match at the Hillsborough stadium in Sheffield, a crush of fans resulted in 97 deaths and hundreds of injuries—England’s deadliest sporting disaster.  
  After that turbulent period, Liverpool won a third UEFA Cup competition (2001), took the 2005 and 2019 Champions League titles, and broke a 30-year streak without a domestic title by capturing the 2019–20 Premier League championship. The club also captured a total of eight FA Cup and nine League Cup victories. Successful Liverpool teams were renowned for a solid defense that set the table for exciting forwards such as Roger Hunt, Kevin Keegan, Ian Rush, Kenny Dalglish (who managed the club from 1985 to 1991), and Michael Owen, as well as attacking midfielder Steven Gerrard.  
  Liverpool is one of the most valuable and widely supported clubs in the world. The club has long-standing rivalries with Manchester United and Everton. Under management by Shankly, in 1964 the team changed from red shirts and white shorts to an all-red home strip which has been used ever since. The club's anthem is "You'll Never Walk Alone".  
  The club's supporters have been involved in two major tragedies. The Heysel Stadium disaster, where escaping fans were pressed against a collapsing wall at the 1985 European Cup Final in Brussels, resulted in 39 deaths. Most of these were Italians and Juventus fans. Liverpool were given a six-year ban from European competition, and all other English clubs received a five-year ban. The Hillsborough disaster in 1989, where 97 Liverpool supporters died in a crowd crush against perimeter fencing, led to the elimination of fenced standing terraces in favour of all-seater stadiums in the top two tiers of English football. Prolonged campaigning for justice saw further coroners inquests, commissions and independent panels that ultimately exonerated the fans.  
  History  
  Liverpool F.C. was founded following a dispute between the Everton committee and John Houlding, club president and owner of the land at Anfield. After eight years at the stadium, Everton relocated to Goodison Park in 1892 and Houlding founded Liverpool F.C. to play at Anfield.[3] Originally named "Everton F.C. and Athletic Grounds Ltd" (Everton Athletic for short), the club became Liverpool F.C. in March 1892 and gained official recognition three months later, after The Football Association refused to recognise the club as Everton.[4]  
  Liverpool played their first match on 1 September 1892, a pre-season friendly match against Rotherham Town, which they won 7–1. The team Liverpool fielded against Rotherham was composed entirely of Scottish players—the players who came from Scotland to play in England in those days were known as the Scotch Professors. Manager John McKenna had recruited the players after a scouting trip to Scotland—so they became known as the "team of Macs".[5] The team won the Lancashire League in its debut season and joined the Football League Second Division at the start of the 1893–94 season. After the club was promoted to the First Division in 1896, Tom Watson was appointed manager. He led Liverpool to its first league title in 1901, before winning it again in 1906.[6]  
  Liverpool reached its first FA Cup Final in 1914, losing 1–0 to Burnley. It won consecutive League championships in 1922 and 1923, but did not win another trophy until the 1946–47 season, when the club won the First Division for a fifth time under the control of ex-West Ham United centre half George Kay.[7] Liverpool suffered its second Cup Final defeat in 1950, playing against Arsenal.[8] The club was relegated to the Second Division in the 1953–54 season.[9] Soon after Liverpool lost 2–1 to non-league Worcester City in the 1958–59 FA Cup, Bill Shankly was appointed manager. Upon his arrival he released 24 players and converted a boot storage room at Anfield into a room where the coaches could discuss strategy; here, Shankly and other "Boot Room" members Joe Fagan, Reuben Bennett, and Bob Paisley began reshaping the team.[10]  
  The club was promoted back into the First Division in 1962 and won it in 1964, for the first time in 17 years. In 1965, the club won its first FA Cup. In 1966, the club won the First Division but lost to Borussia Dortmund in the European Cup Winners' Cup final.[11] Liverpool won both the League and the UEFA Cup during the 1972–73 season, and the FA Cup again a year later. Shankly retired soon afterwards and was replaced by his assistant, Bob Paisley.[12] In 1976, Paisley's second season as manager, the club won another League and UEFA Cup double. The following season, the club retained the League title and won the European Cup for the first time, but it lost in the 1977 FA Cup Final. Liverpool retained the European Cup in 1978 and regained the First Division title in 1979.[13] During Paisley's nine seasons as manager Liverpool won 20 trophies, including three European Cups, a UEFA Cup, six League titles and three consecutive League Cups; the only domestic trophy he did not win was the FA Cup.[14]  
  Paisley retired in 1983 and was replaced by his assistant, Joe Fagan.[15] Liverpool won the League, League Cup and European Cup in Fagan's first season, becoming the first English side to win three trophies in a season.[16] Liverpool reached the European Cup final again in 1985, against Juventus at the Heysel Stadium. Before kick-off, Liverpool fans breached a fence that separated the two groups of supporters and charged the Juventus fans. The resulting weight of people caused a retaining wall to collapse, killing 39 fans, mostly Italians. The incident became known as the Heysel Stadium disaster. The match was played in spite of protests by both managers, and Liverpool lost 1–0 to Juventus. As a result of the tragedy, English clubs were banned from participating in European competition for five years; Liverpool received a ten-year ban, which was later reduced to six years. Fourteen Liverpool fans received convictions for involuntary manslaughter.[17]  
  Fagan had announced his retirement just before the disaster and Kenny Dalglish was appointed as player-manager.[18] During his tenure, the club won another three league titles and two FA Cups, including a League and Cup "Double" in the 1985–86 season. Liverpool's success was overshadowed by the Hillsborough disaster: in an FA Cup semi-final against Nottingham Forest on 15 April 1989, hundreds of Liverpool fans were crushed against perimeter fencing.[19] Ninety-four fans died that day; the 95th victim died in hospital from his injuries four days later, the 96th died nearly four years later, without regaining consciousness, and the 97th, Andrew Devine, died of injuries sustained in the disaster in 2021.[20][21] After the Hillsborough disaster there was a government review of stadium safety. The resulting Taylor Report paved the way for legislation that required top-division teams to have all-seater stadiums. The report ruled that the main reason for the disaster was overcrowding due to a failure of police control.[22]  
  Liverpool was involved in the closest finish to a league season during the 1988–89 season. Liverpool finished equal with Arsenal on both points and goal difference, but lost the title on total goals scored when Arsenal scored the final goal in the last minute of the season.[23]  
  Dalglish cited the Hillsborough disaster and its repercussions as the reason for his resignation in 1991; he was replaced by former player Graeme Souness.[24] Under his leadership Liverpool won the 1992 FA Cup Final, but their league performances slumped, with two consecutive sixth-place finishes, eventually resulting in his dismissal in January 1994. Souness was replaced by Roy Evans, and Liverpool went on to win the 1995 Football League Cup Final.[25] While they made some title challenges under Evans, third-place finishes in 1996 and 1998 were the best they could manage, and so Gérard Houllier was appointed co-manager in the 1998–99 season, and became the sole manager in November 1998 after Evans resigned.[26] In 2001, Houllier's second full season in charge, Liverpool won a "treble": the FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Cup.[27] Houllier underwent major heart surgery during the 2001–02 season and Liverpool finished second in the League, behind Arsenal.[28] They won a further League Cup in 2003, but failed to mount a title challenge in the two seasons that followed.[29][30]  
  Houllier was replaced by Rafael Benítez at the end of the 2003–04 season. Despite finishing fifth in Benítez's first season, Liverpool won the 2004–05 UEFA Champions League, beating A.C. Milan 3–2 in a penalty shootout after the match ended with a score of 3–3.[31] The following season, Liverpool finished third in the Premier League and won the 2006 FA Cup Final, beating West Ham United in a penalty shootout after the match finished 3–3.[32] American businessmen George Gillett and Tom Hicks became the owners of the club during the 2006–07 season, in a deal which valued the club and its outstanding debts at £218.9 million.[33] The club reached the 2007 UEFA Champions League Final against Milan, as it had in 2005, but lost 2–1.[34] During the 2008–09 season Liverpool achieved 86 points, its then-highest Premier League points total, prior to the record-breaking 2018–19 season, and finished as runners up to Manchester United.[35]  
  In the 2009–10 season, Liverpool finished seventh in the Premier League and failed to qualify for the Champions League. Benítez subsequently left by mutual consent[36] and was replaced by Fulham manager Roy Hodgson.[37] At the start of the 2010–11 season Liverpool was on the verge of bankruptcy and the club's creditors asked the High Court to allow the sale of the club, overruling the wishes of Hicks and Gillett. John W. Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox and of Fenway Sports Group, bid successfully for the club and took ownership in October 2010.[38] Poor results during the start of that season led to Hodgson leaving the club by mutual consent and former player and manager Kenny Dalglish taking over.[39] In the 2011–12 season, Liverpool secured a record 8th League Cup success and reached the FA Cup final, but finished in eighth position, the worst league finish in 18 years; this led to the sacking of Dalglish.[40][41] He was replaced by Brendan Rodgers,[42] whose Liverpool team in the 2013–14 season mounted an unexpected title charge to finish second behind champions Manchester City and subsequently return to the Champions League, scoring 101 goals in the process, the most since the 106 scored in the 1895–96 season.[43][44] Following a disappointing 2014–15 season, where Liverpool finished sixth in the league, and a poor start to the following campaign, Rodgers was sacked in October 2015.[45]  
  Rodgers was replaced by Jürgen Klopp.[46] Liverpool reached the finals of the Football League Cup and UEFA Europa League in Klopp's first season, finishing as runner-up in both competitions.[47] The club finished second in the 2018–19 season with 97 points (surpassing the 86 points gained during the 2008–09 season), losing only one game: a points record for a non-title winning side.[48] Klopp took Liverpool to successive Champions League finals in 2018 and 2019, with the club defeating Tottenham Hotspur 2–0 to win the 2019 UEFA Champions League Final.[49][50] Liverpool beat Flamengo of Brazil in the final 1–0 to win the FIFA Club World Cup for the first time.[51] Liverpool then went on to win the 2019–20 Premier League, winning their first top-flight league title in thirty years.[52] The club set multiple records in the season, including winning the league with seven games remaining making it the earliest any team has ever won the title,[53] amassing a club record 99 points, and achieving a joint-record 32 wins in a top-flight season.[54] In January 2024, Klopp announced that he would leave the club at the end of the season.[55]  
  Colours and badge  
  For much of Liverpool's history, its home colours have been all red. When the club was founded in 1892, blue and white quartered shirts were used until the club adopted the city's colour of red in 1896.[3] The city's symbol of the liver bird was adopted as the club's badge (or crest, as it is sometimes known) in 1901, although it was not incorporated into the kit until 1955. Liverpool continued to wear red shirts and white shorts until 1964 when manager Bill Shankly decided to change to an all-red strip.[56] Liverpool played in all red for the first time against Anderlecht, as Ian St John recalled in his autobiography:  
  He [Shankly] thought the colour scheme would carry psychological impact – red for danger, red for power. He came into the dressing room one day and threw a pair of red shorts to Ronnie Yeats. "Get into those shorts and let's see how you look", he said. "Christ, Ronnie, you look awesome, terrifying. You look 7 ft tall." "Why not go the whole hog, boss?" I suggested. "Why not wear red socks? Let's go out all in red." Shankly approved and an iconic kit was born.[57]  
  The Liverpool away strip has more often than not been all yellow or white shirts and black shorts, but there have been several exceptions. An all grey kit was introduced in 1987, which was used until the 1991–92 centenary season when it was replaced by a combination of green shirts and white shorts. After various colour combinations in the 1990s, including gold and navy, bright yellow, black and grey, and ecru, the club alternated between yellow and white away kits until the 2008–09 season, when it re-introduced the grey kit. A third kit is designed for European away matches, though it is also worn in domestic away matches on occasions when the current away kit clashes with a team's home kit. Between 2012 and 2015, the kits were designed by Warrior Sports, who became the club's kit providers at the start of the 2012–13 season.[58] In February 2015, Warrior's parent company New Balance announced it would be entering the global football market, with teams sponsored by Warrior now being outfitted by New Balance.[59] The only other branded shirts worn by the club were made by Umbro until 1985, when they were replaced by Adidas, who produced the kits until 1996 when Reebok took over. They produced the kits for 10 years before Adidas made the kits from 2006 to 2012.[60] Nike became the club's official kit supplier at the start of the 2020–21 season.[61]  
  Liverpool was the first English professional club to have a sponsor's logo on its shirts, after agreeing a deal with Hitachi in 1979.[62] However, for the first few years of the deal, broadcasting rules meant that sponsors logos could not be shown on shirts for televised matches.[63]  
  Since then the club has been sponsored by Crown Paints, Candy, Carlsberg and Standard Chartered. The contract with Carlsberg, which was signed in 1992, was the longest-lasting agreement in English top-flight football.[64] The association with Carlsberg ended at the start of the 2010–11 season, when Standard Chartered Bank became the club's sponsor.[65]  
  The Liverpool badge is based on the city's liver bird symbol, which in the past had been placed inside a shield. In 1977, a red liver bird standing on a football (blazoned as "Statant upon a football a Liver Bird wings elevated and addorsed holding in the beak a piece of seaweed gules") was granted as a heraldic badge by the College of Arms to the English Football League intended for use by Liverpool. However, Liverpool never made use of this badge.[66] In 1992, to commemorate the centennial of the club, a new badge was commissioned, including a representation of the Shankly Gates. The next year twin flames were added at either side, symbolic of the Hillsborough memorial outside Anfield, where an eternal flame burns in memory of those who died in the Hillsborough disaster.[67] In 2012, Warrior Sports' first Liverpool kit removed the shield and gates, returning the badge to what had adorned Liverpool shirts in the 1970s; the flames were moved to the back collar of the shirt, surrounding the number 96 for the number who died at Hillsborough.[68]  
  Stadium  
  For information on Liverpool's abandoned proposed new stadium, see Stanley Park Stadium.  
  Anfield was built in 1884 on land adjacent to Stanley Park. Situated 2 miles (3 km) from Liverpool city centre, it was originally used by Everton before the club moved to Goodison Park after a dispute over rent with Anfield owner John Houlding.[69] Left with an empty ground, Houlding founded Liverpool in 1892 and the club has played at Anfield ever since. The capacity of the stadium at the time was 20,000, although only 100 spectators attended Liverpool's first match at Anfield.[70]  
  The Kop was built in 1906 due to the high turnout for matches and was called the Oakfield Road Embankment initially. Its first game was on 1 September 1906 when the home side beat Stoke City 1–0.[71] In 1906 the banked stand at one end of the ground was formally renamed the Spion Kop after a hill in KwaZulu-Natal.[72] The hill was the site of the Battle of Spion Kop in the Second Boer War, where over 300 men of the Lancashire Regiment died, many of them from Liverpool.[73] At its peak, the stand could hold 28,000 spectators and was one of the largest single-tier stands in the world. Many stadiums in England had stands named after Spion Kop, but Anfield's was the largest of them at the time; it could hold more supporters than some entire football grounds.[74]  
  Anfield could accommodate more than 60,000 supporters at its peak and had a capacity of 55,000 until the 1990s, when, following recommendations from the Taylor Report, all clubs in the Premier League were obliged to convert to all-seater stadiums in time for the 1993–94 season, reducing its capacity to 45,276.[75] The findings of the report precipitated the redevelopment of the Kemlyn Road Stand, which was rebuilt in 1992, coinciding with the centenary of the club, and was known as the Centenary Stand until 2017 when it was renamed the Kenny Dalglish Stand. An extra tier was added to the Anfield Road end in 1998, which further increased the capacity of the ground but gave rise to problems when it was opened. A series of support poles and stanchions were inserted to give extra stability to the top tier of the stand after movement of the tier was reported at the start of the 1999–2000 season.[76]  
  Because of restrictions on expanding the capacity at Anfield, Liverpool announced plans to move to the proposed Stanley Park Stadium in May 2002.[77] Planning permission was granted in July 2004,[78] and in September 2006, Liverpool City Council agreed to grant Liverpool a 999-year lease on the proposed site.[79] Following the takeover of the club by George Gillett and Tom Hicks in February 2007, the proposed stadium was redesigned. The new design was approved by the Council in November 2007. The stadium was scheduled to open in August 2011 and would hold 60,000 spectators, with HKS, Inc. contracted to build the stadium.[80] Construction was halted in August 2008, as Gillett and Hicks had difficulty in financing the £300 million needed for the development.[81] In October 2012, BBC Sport reported that Fenway Sports Group, the new owners of Liverpool FC, had decided to redevelop their current home at Anfield stadium, rather than building a new stadium in Stanley Park. As part of the redevelopment the capacity of Anfield was to increase from 45,276 to approximately 60,000 and would cost approximately £150m.[82] When construction was completed on the new Main stand the capacity of Anfield was increased to 54,074. This £100 million expansion added a third tier to the stand. This was all part of a £260 million project to improve the Anfield area. Jürgen Klopp the manager at the time described the stand as "impressive."[83]  
  In June 2021, it was reported that Liverpool Council had given planning permission for the club to renovate and expand the Anfield Road stand, boosting the capacity by around 7,000 and taking the overall capacity at Anfield to 61,000. The expansion, which is estimated to cost £60m, was described as "a huge milestone" by managing director Andy Hughes, and would also see rail seating being trialled in the Kop for the 2021–22 Premier League season.[84]  
  Support  
  Liverpool is one of the best supported clubs in the world.[85][86] The club states that its worldwide fan base includes 300 officially recognised Supporters Clubs in 100 different countries.[87] Notable groups include Spirit of Shankly.[87] The club takes advantage of this support through its worldwide summer tours,[88] which has included playing in front of 101,000 in Michigan, U.S., and 95,000 in Melbourne, Australia.[89][90] Liverpool fans often refer to themselves as Kopites, a reference to the fans who once stood, and now sit, on the Kop at Anfield.[91] In 2008 a group of fans decided to form a splinter club, A.F.C. Liverpool, to play matches for fans who had been priced out of watching Premier League football.[92]  
  The song "You'll Never Walk Alone", originally from the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical Carousel and later recorded by Liverpool musicians Gerry and the Pacemakers, is the club's anthem and has been sung by the Anfield crowd since the early 1960s.[93] It has since gained popularity among fans of other clubs around the world.[94] The song's title adorns the top of the Shankly Gates, which were unveiled on 2 August 1982 in memory of former manager Bill Shankly. The "You'll Never Walk Alone" portion of the Shankly Gates is also reproduced on the club's badge.[95]  
  The club's supporters have been involved in two stadium disasters. The first was the 1985 Heysel Stadium disaster, in which 39 people, mostly Italians and Juventus supporters, were killed. They were confined to a corner by Liverpool fans who had charged in their direction; the weight of the cornered fans caused a wall to collapse. UEFA laid the blame for the incident solely on the Liverpool supporters,[96] and banned all English clubs from European competition for five years. Liverpool was banned for an additional year, preventing it from participating in the 1990–91 European Cup, even though it won the League in 1990.[97] Twenty-seven fans were arrested on suspicion of manslaughter and were extradited to Belgium in 1987 to face trial.[98] In 1989, after a five-month trial in Belgium, 14 Liverpool fans were given three-year sentences for involuntary manslaughter;[99] half of the terms were suspended.[100]  
  The second disaster took place during an FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest at Hillsborough Stadium, Sheffield, on 15 April 1989. Ninety-seven Liverpool fans died as a consequence of overcrowding at the Leppings Lane end, in what became known as the Hillsborough disaster. In the following days, The Sun's coverage of the event spread falsehoods, particularly an article entitled "The Truth" that claimed that Liverpool fans had robbed the dead and had urinated on and attacked the police.[101] Subsequent investigations proved the allegations false, leading to a boycott of the newspaper by Liverpool fans across the city and elsewhere; many still refuse to buy The Sun 30 years later.[102] Many support organisations were set up in the wake of the disaster, such as the Hillsborough Justice Campaign, which represents bereaved families, survivors and supporters in their efforts to secure justice.[103]  
  Rivalries  
  Liverpool's longest-established rivalry is with fellow Liverpool team Everton, against whom they contest the Merseyside derby. The rivalry stems from Liverpool's formation and the dispute with Everton officials and the then owners of Anfield.[104] The Merseyside derby is one of the few local derbies which do not enforce fan segregation, and hence has been known as the "friendly derby".[105] Since the mid-1980s, the rivalry has intensified both on and off the field and, since the inception of the Premier League in 1992, the Merseyside derby has had more players sent off than any other Premier League game. It has been referred to as "the most ill-disciplined and explosive fixture in the Premier League".[106] In terms of support within the city, the number of Liverpool fans outweighs Everton supporters by a ratio of 2:1.[107]  
  Liverpool's rivalry with Manchester United stems from the cities' competition in the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century.[108] Connected by the world's first inter-city railway, by road Liverpool and Manchester are separated by approximately 30 miles (48 km) along the East Lancs Road.[109] Ranked the two biggest clubs in England by France Football magazine, Liverpool and Manchester United are the most successful English teams in both domestic and international competitions, and both clubs have a global fanbase.[110][111] Viewed as one of the biggest rivalries in world football, it is considered the most famous fixture in English football.[112][113][114] The two clubs alternated as champions between 1964 and 1967,[115] and Manchester United became the first English team to win the European Cup in 1968, followed by Liverpool's four European Cup victories.[116] Despite the 39 league titles and nine European Cups between them[115] the two rivals have rarely been successful at the same time – Liverpool's run of titles in the 1970s and 1980s coincided with Manchester United's 26-year title drought, and United's success in the Premier League-era likewise coincided with Liverpool's 30-year title drought,[117] and the two clubs have finished first and second in the league only five times.[115] Such is the rivalry between the clubs they rarely do transfer business with each other. The last player to be transferred between the two clubs was Phil Chisnall, who moved to Liverpool from Manchester United in 1964.[118]  
  Ownership and finances  
  As the owner of Anfield and founder of Liverpool, John Houlding was the club's first chairman, a position he held from its founding in 1892 until 1904. John McKenna took over as chairman after Houlding's departure.[119] McKenna subsequently became President of the Football League.[120] The chairmanship changed hands many times before John Smith, whose father was a shareholder of the club, took up the role in 1973. He oversaw the most successful period in Liverpool's history before stepping down in 1990.[121] His successor was Noel White who became chairman in 1990.[122] In August 1991 David Moores, whose family had owned the club for more than 50 years, became chairman. His uncle John Moores was also a shareholder at Liverpool and was chairman of Everton from 1961 to 1973. Moores owned 51 percent of the club, and in 2004 expressed his willingness to consider a bid for his shares in Liverpool.[123]  
  Moores eventually sold the club to American businessmen George Gillett and Tom Hicks on 6 February 2007. The deal valued the club and its outstanding debts at £218.9 million. The pair paid £5,000 per share, or £174.1m for the total shareholding and £44.8m to cover the club's debts.[124] Disagreements between Gillett and Hicks, and the fans' lack of support for them, resulted in the pair looking to sell the club.[125] Martin Broughton was appointed chairman of the club on 16 April 2010 to oversee its sale.[126] In May 2010, accounts were released showing the holding company of the club to be £350m in debt (due to leveraged takeover) with losses of £55m, causing auditor KPMG to qualify its audit opinion.[127] The group's creditors, including the Royal Bank of Scotland, took Gillett and Hicks to court to force them to allow the board to proceed with the sale of the club, the major asset of the holding company. A High Court judge, Mr Justice Floyd, ruled in favour of the creditors and paved the way for the sale of the club to Fenway Sports Group (formerly New England Sports Ventures), although Gillett and Hicks still had the option to appeal.[128] Liverpool was sold to Fenway Sports Group on 15 October 2010 for £300m.[129]  
  Liverpool has been described as a global brand; a 2010 report valued the club's trademarks and associated intellectual property at £141m, an increase of £5m on the previous year. Liverpool was given a brand rating of AA (Very Strong).[130] In April 2010 business magazine Forbes ranked Liverpool as the sixth most valuable football team in the world, behind Manchester United, Real Madrid, Arsenal, Barcelona and Bayern Munich; they valued the club at $822m (£532m), excluding debt.[131] Accountants Deloitte ranked Liverpool eighth in the Deloitte Football Money League, which ranks the world's football clubs in terms of revenue. Liverpool's income in the 2009–10 season was €225.3m.[132] According to a 2018 report by Deloitte, the club had an annual revenue of €424.2 million for the previous year,[133] and Forbes valued the club at $1.944 billion.[134] In 2018, annual revenue increased to €513.7 million,[135] and Forbes valued the club at $2.183 billion.[136] In 2019 revenue increased to €604 million (£533 million) according to Deloitte, with the club breaching the half a billion pounds mark.[137]  
  In April 2020, the owners of the club came under fire from fans and the media for deciding to furlough all non-playing staff during the COVID-19 pandemic.[138] In response to this, the club made a U-turn on the decision and apologised for their initial decision.[139] In April 2021 Forbes valued the club at $4.1 billion, a two-year increase of 88%, making it the world's fifth-most-valuable football club.[140] Based on the latest rankings by Forbes, as of May 2023, Liverpool is ranked as the fourth most valuable football club in the world, behind Real Madrid, Manchester United and Barcelona; they valued the club at $5.29 billion, an increase of 19% from 2022.[141]  
  Liverpool in the media  
  Liverpool featured in the first edition of BBC's Match of the Day, which screened highlights of their match against Arsenal at Anfield on 22 August 1964. The first football match to be televised in colour was between Liverpool and West Ham United, broadcast live in March 1967.[142] Liverpool fans featured in the Pink Floyd song "Fearless", in which they sang excerpts from "You'll Never Walk Alone".[143] To mark the club's appearance in the 1988 FA Cup Final, Liverpool released the "Anfield Rap", a song featuring John Barnes and other members of the squad.[144]  
  A docudrama on the Hillsborough disaster, written by Jimmy McGovern, was screened in 1996. It featured Christopher Eccleston as Trevor Hicks, who lost two teenage daughters in the disaster, went on to campaign for safer stadiums and helped to form the Hillsborough Families Support Group.[145] Liverpool featured in the 2001 film The 51st State, in which ex-hitman Felix DeSouza (Robert Carlyle) is a keen supporter of the team and the last scene takes place at a match between Liverpool and Manchester United.[146] The club also featured in the 1984 children's television show Scully, about a young boy who tries to gain a trial with Liverpool.[147] In the Doctor Who episode "The Halloween Apocalypse", aired in October 2021, features The Doctor (played by Jodie Whittaker) exiting the TARDIS outside Anfield as she exclaims: "Liverpool? Anfield! Klopp era, classic!".[148]  
  Players  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Player records  
  Club captains  
  Since the establishment of the club in 1892, 46 players have been club captain of Liverpool F.C.[156] Andrew Hannah became the first captain of the club after Liverpool separated from Everton and formed its own club. Alex Raisbeck, who was club captain from 1899 to 1909, was the longest serving captain before being overtaken by Steven Gerrard who served 12 seasons as Liverpool captain starting from the 2003–04 season.[156] The present captain is Virgil van Dijk, who in the 2023–24 season replaced Jordan Henderson who moved to Al-Ettifaq.  
  Honours  
  Liverpool's first trophy was the Lancashire League, which it won in the club's first season.[5] In 1901, the club won its first League title, while the nineteenth and most recent was in 2020. Its first success in the FA Cup was in 1965. In terms of the number of trophies won, Liverpool's most successful decade was the 1980s, when the club won six League titles, two FA Cups, four League Cups, one Football League Super Cup, five Charity Shields (one shared) and two European Cups. In 2020, Liverpool became the first English club to have won a League title in eight different decades.[164]  
  The club has accumulated more top-flight wins and points than any other English team.[165] Liverpool also has the highest average league finishing position (3.3) for the 50-year period to 2015[166] and second-highest average league finishing position for the period 1900–1999 after Arsenal, with an average league placing of 8.7.[167]  
  Liverpool is the most successful British club in international football with fourteen trophies, having won the European Cup/UEFA Champions League, UEFA's premier club competition, six times, an English record and only surpassed by Real Madrid and A.C. Milan. Liverpool's fifth European Cup win, in 2005, meant that the club was awarded the trophy permanently and was also awarded a multiple-winner badge.[168][169] Liverpool also hold the English record of three wins in the UEFA Cup, UEFA's secondary club competition.[170] Liverpool also hold the English record of four wins in the UEFA Super Cup.[171] In 2019, the club won the FIFA Club World Cup for the first time, and also became the first English club to win the international treble of Club World Cup, Champions League and UEFA Super Cup.[172][173]  
  ^ a b Doubles won in conjunction with the treble, such as a FA Cup and League Cup double in 2001, are not included in the Doubles section.  
  References  
  ^ "Happy birthday LFC? Not quite yet..." Liverpool FC. 14 March 2014. Archived from the original on 17 August 2022. Retrieved 16 July 2023. Liverpool F.C. was born on 3 June 1892. It was at John Houlding's house in Anfield Road that he and his closest friends left from Everton FC, formed a new club.  
  ^ McNulty, Phil (23 May 2007). "AC Milan 2–1 Liverpool". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 24 May 2007. Retrieved 23 May 2007.  
  ^ "Goals". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 13 August 2012. Retrieved 27 August 2012.  
  ^ Dart, James; Tinklin, Mark (6 July 2005). "Has a streaker ever scored?". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 6 September 2009. Retrieved 16 August 2007.  
  ^ "Hillsborough". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 4 June 2011. Retrieved 12 August 2010.  
  ^ "Club Directory" (PDF). Premier League Handbook Season 2010/11. Premier League. 2010. p. 35. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 December 2010. Retrieved 17 August 2010.  
  ^ "Anfield". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 4 June 2011. Retrieved 15 August 2010.  
  ^ Hornby, Mike (31 July 2004). "Reds stadium gets go-ahead". Liverpool Echo. Archived from the original on 15 May 2012. Retrieved 12 September 2006.  
  ^ "Asia Tour 2011". Liverpool F.C. 27 July 2011. Archived from the original on 11 July 2015. Retrieved 2 September 2014.  
  ^ "Anfield giants never walk alone". Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). 11 June 2008. Archived from the original on 11 September 2008. Retrieved 14 November 2008.  
  ^ "Liverpool". Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). Archived from the original on 14 June 2009. Retrieved 23 July 2011.  
  ^ "LFC Crests". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 7 June 2022. Retrieved 29 July 2018.  
  ^ Jackson, Jamie (4 April 2005). "The witnesses". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 9 June 2013. Retrieved 27 May 2006.  
  ^ "Classic: Everton-Liverpool". Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA). 11 September 2006. Archived from the original on 25 August 2009. Retrieved 20 December 2008.  
  ^ Rohrer, Finlo (21 August 2007). "Scouse v Manc". BBC. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016. Retrieved 3 April 2008.  
  ^ Ingle, Sean; Murray, Scott (10 May 2000). "Knowledge Unlimited". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 28 October 2009. Retrieved 26 February 2008.  
  ^ "Liverpool". Forbes. 21 April 2010. Archived from the original on 10 April 2011. Retrieved 8 August 2010.  
  ^ Ebert, Roger (18 October 2002). "Formula 51". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on 8 December 2011. Retrieved 19 August 2011.  
  ^ "Scully". BBC. 20 August 2009. Archived from the original on 23 August 2011. Retrieved 19 August 2011.  
  ^ a b "Mens". Liverpool F.C. Archived from the original on 10 June 2023. Retrieved 23 July 2023.  
  ^ "Directors". Liverpool FC. Archived from the original on 12 May 2019. Retrieved 24 May 2021.  
  Bibliography  
  Cox, Richard; Russell, Dave; Vamplew, Wray (2002). Encyclopedia of British football. Routledge. ISBN 0-7146-5249-0.  
  Crilly, Peter (2007). Tops of the Kops: The Complete Guide to Liverpool's Kits. Trinity Mirror Sport Media. ISBN 978-1-905266-22-7.  
  Kelly, Stephen F. (1988). You'll Never Walk Alone. Queen Anne Press. ISBN 0-356-19594-5.  
  Liversedge, Stan (1991). Liverpool:The Official Centenary History. Hamlyn Publishing Group. ISBN 0-600-57308-7.  
  Moynihan, Leo (2009). The Pocket Book of Liverpool. Turnaround Publisher Services. ISBN 978-1-905326-62-4.  
  Pead, Brian (1986). Liverpool A Complete Record. Breedon Books. ISBN 0-907969-15-1.  
  † - These properties are owned by NESV through the Fenway Sports Group subsidiary. All other listed properties are directly owned by NESV.  
  Please Note: LFC City Explorer will not be running any tours for the remaining of 2024.  
  Liverpool FC History  
  The History of Liverpool FC  
  Liverpool Football Club is one of England's most successful teams, having won many trophies, including 19 League Titles and 6 European Cups, since the club was founded in 1892. As well as an extensive trophy cabinet, Liverpool FC is famous for providing spectators with entertaining attacking football and boasts one of the most passionate fan bases in sport.  
  Do you think you know all there is to know about the history of Liverpool Football Club? From when LFC was founded to modern success, It's time to put your knowledge to the test with our LFC history guide...  
  1 1892 - The Founding Years of Liverpool FC  
  So when was LFC founded? The iconic LFC history begins in 1892, a number ingrained in the famous crest. The club's Anfield premises originally belonged to local rivals Everton FC until a dispute resulted in the blue team of Merseyside leaving to form a new ground at Goodison Park. With an empty stadium at hand, local businessman John Houlding decided to create a new football team called Liverpool FC! The rest, as they, is history.  
  The very first competitive match played by a Liverpool FC team was on September 3, 1892, where Higher Walton was on the end of a very comfortable 8-0 defeat. In the years to come, Liverpool was promoted to the First Division at the first attempt and won their first Football League title in 1901. With more success following on and off the field, including back-to-back titles and an Anfield expansion, the club endured a stellar start to life.  
  2 A Club on the Edge of Greatness in the 1960s  
  The 1960s can be considered the era where Liverpool began to rise from the ashes. Bill Shankly commenced his reign as manager of the club, and it didn't take long for supporters to appreciate his approach and ideals. After seven years away, Liverpool earned a promotion to the First Division in 1964. A few months later, the club introduced their first all-red kit with Shankly symbolising the colour as meaning power and danger. It only took Liverpool two years of being in the First Division to win their first title under the leadership of Bill Shankly.  
  Liverpool Football Club entered their first European Cup competition in 1964, reaching the semi-finals against Inter Milan, who eventually beat Benfica in the final on home turf. Liverpool reached their first European final in 1966 with the Cup Winners' Cup but suffered an extra-time defeat to Borussia Dortmund. The BBC's popular highlights programme Match of the Day broadcasted its first show in 1964 with Liverpool beating Arsenal 3-2 at home. Five years later, Anfield was chosen as the venue for the programme's first colour-format broadcast - Liverpool beat West Ham 2-0!  
  Image by Rodhullandemu on Wikipedia.  
  3 The 1970s and 1980s Were Fully of Glory  
  This timeframe no doubt marks the club's most successful period to date. Heading into the 70s, Bill Shankly's love of the game and his charismatic approach brought the club a fresh lease of life. Liverpool's first taste of European success came in 1973 with a victory over Borussia Moenchengladbach in the UEFA Cup. Shankly's resignation a year later was met with shock and sadness but ushered in the Bob Paisley era, where success came in many forms. Paisley is regarded as one of the country's most successful football managers, having achieved 6 League Titles, 3 European Cups and 9 domestic trophies.  
  Paisley oversaw the beginning of Liverpool's dominance in England and Europe and was the only manager to win three European Cups with a single team until Real Madrid's success in recent years. Joe Fagan took over from Paisley in 1983, and while his stint was a short one, he won the treble in his first year and is considered by many to be an underrated hero in the club's history. In 1985, Sir Kenny Dalglish took his hero status to a new level by becoming one of the game's first player managers. Nicknamed 'The King' by the Anfield faithful, Dalglish led the team to further success, including their 18th League Title. Following his shock resignation in the early 90s, Liverpool's reign as the dominant team in England began to slip.  
  4 Success for LFC Began to Decline in the 1990s  
  Following the incredible success of the previous era, Liverpool FC's history saw a sharp decline in the 1990s. Club legend Graeme Souness returned to the club to succeed Sir Kenny Dalglish as manager, but his dismal reign only lasted three years. A long-standing member of Liverpool's famous boot room took over in 1994, but Roy Evan's only success came from a League Cup. Gerard Houllier joined as co-manager alongside Evans in 1998 before the Frenchman took over as the sole manager just a few months later.  
  The latter years of the 1990s will be best remembered for the rise of some of Liverpool's best local talent. Two of the club's greatest strikers, Robbie Fowler and Michael Owen, didn't take long to become favourites among the Anfield faithful. Jamie Carragher made his debut in 1997, and his grit and passion were long felt at the heart of the defence. Of course, we shouldn't forget Captain Fantastic! Steven Gerrard made his first competitive debut in November 1998 against Blackburn Rovers in the Premier League.  
  5 Mixed Emotions Between 2000 to 2010  
  What better way to bring in the new millennium than with a treble! In 2001 Liverpool claimed the FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Cup under the leadership of Gerard Houllier. Towards the end of the year, the manager was taken ill at half-time during a league match against Leeds United, and a heart condition ruled him out of action for several months. Despite the success of the 2000/01 season, Liverpool failed to exceed expectations. Critics largely blamed Houllier's transfer dealings for several poor seasons in the following years. El Hadji Diouf is more well-known for his controversial nature than his footballing ability, while Salif Diao and Bruno Cheyrou failed to make a name for themselves at Anfield.  
  Houllier's popularity was at an all-time low in 2004, and he was replaced that summer by former Valencia manager Rafael Benitez. In his debut season, the Spaniard will forever be remembered for inspiring one of sporting's most remarkable comebacks in Istanbul to deliver Liverpool's fifth European Cup. Fast forward to the following season, and the success continued with Liverpool beating West Ham United on penalties in a dramatic FA Cup Final match. In 2007 Liverpool went to Athens for another European Cup final, but AC Milan came out victorious to claim their revenge after Istanbul. With the arrival of new American owners, things quickly began to turn sour at Liverpool FC. The club's supporters soon despised Tom Hicks and George Gillet for false promises and public spats with Benitez and chief executive Rick Parry. Trophies had dried up since the 2006 FA Cup win, and the manager received his marching orders in the summer of 2010.  
  6 2010 to 2015 - Hope for a Promising Turnaround  
  LFC's history took a turn for the worse in the 2010s when Fulham manager Roy Hodgson replaced Rafa Benitez; a choice met with disappointment among the supporters. Following a dismal turn of events on and off the pitch, an intense battle for ownership reached a fever point on October 15, 2010, when Boston-based Fenway Sports Group won the right to take over following a legal challenge at the High Court. Their direct message to the fanbase was clear, letting their actions do the talking. Hodgson's tenure went from bad to worse, and he was soon replaced within months of FSG taking over. At the beginning of 2011, fan-favourite Sir Kenny Dalglish marked his return to the club, and his first match was against none other than old rival Sir Alex Fergurson of Manchester United. The signs of progress were clear, and Dalglish earned Liverpool their first trophy in six years with a League Cup victory against Cardiff City. This success, however, was short-lived, with the owners deciding that enough progress had not been made in other areas. In a bold move, FSG sacked a club legend in favour of Brendan Rodgers, a young and relatively inexperienced manager from Swansea City.  
  Thanks to his charismatic personality and commitment to delivering attacking football, it didn't take long for the Ulsterman to sway the Liverpool fans on his side. Rodgers' inaugural season showed steady yet promising signs of improvement, and the January signings of Daniel Sturridge and Philippe Coutinho proved to be a hit. During the 2013/14 season, we saw Liverpool spark under the manager and provide fans with some of the most exciting football the club has seen in years. LFC was leaky at the back, but clinical upfront and the passion of Captain Fantastic Steven Gerrard helped spark a serious title challenge against Manchester City. Ultimately, the deadly combination of Luis Suarez and Daniel Sturridge proved insufficient to deliver supporters the trophy they've waited over 20 years for. The departure of Suarez to Barcelona had seemed like a long time coming, but the mouthwatering transfer fee received failed to reap the rewards. The first season without Suarez and the first back in the Champions League was disappointing, concluding with a humiliating 6-1 defeat to Stoke in Gerrard's last match for the reds. Clearly, Liverpool had lost their way under Brendan Rodgers; he was replaced in October 2015 by former Borussia Dortmund manager Jurgen Klopp, an exciting appointment met with massive praise by the supporters.  
  7 2015 to 2020 - A Club on the Rise  
  In recent years, Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool has been displaying some of the best attacking football fans have ever seen, all under the roof of a magnificent new Main Stand. The German has transformed supporters from doubters to believers by taking his team to finals in the League Cup, Europa League and Champions League in such quick succession. The manager's passionate and charismatic approach has delivered incredible scenes on the touchline, and it's no surprise that fans have taken to him. So far, his time at the club has welcomed fan-favourite new arrivals like Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane, Virgil Van Dijk and Andy Robertson, and the rise of local star Trent Alexander-Arnold.  
  Klopp's third season in charge saw Liverpool return to the crown of European football with a runner-up finish in the Champions League. The team fought hard but was undone by the experience and skill of Real Madrid, who claimed their 13th UCL trophy in Kyiv. Liverpool couldn't linger on this disappointment, however. The following season, they returned better and stronger to challenge Manchester City for the Premier League title. An incredible 97 points were not enough to topple Guardiola's men, but tremendous success was just around the corner.  
  Following a dramatic comeback against Barcelona on another historic night at Anfield, Liverpool booked their place in a second successive Champions League final in Madrid. An early Mohamed Salah penalty and a late Divock Origi strike were enough to claim the club's sixth Champions League success. After a night filled with celebrations, the team were welcomed home as heroes, with hundreds of thousands lining the street to show their appreciation.  
  8 The 2019/20 Season Will Be One to Remember  
  There's no doubt the 2019/20 season will be remembered forever, for good and bad reasons. After winning their first trophy for the Reds under Jurgen Klopp, Liverpool FC didn't have long to blow away the off-season cobwebs and look to put their names in Anfield history even further. After a defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, the campaign began with disappointment, but it didn't take long for the next trophy to arrive at Anfield. In weeks, the club earned the UEFA Super Cup after penalty heroics by new signing Adrian against Chelsea FC.  
  With another trophy under their belt, Liverpool FC was well underway in making this another season to remember. The team racked up win after win in their quest to pip Manchester City to the title, beating several records. It took Manchester United to stop Liverpool's winning run in the league, and it wasn't until February that they suffered their first defeat at the hands of Watford. In December, Liverpool was off to sunny Dubai to compete in the FIFA Club World Cup, a challenge only possible due to winning the Champions League in the previous season. In the final, an extra-time winner from Roberto Firmino was enough to see off Flamengo, awarding Liverpool their first-ever Club World Cup and their second trophy of the season.  
  With a new decade underway, the question of Liverpool winning their first league title in 30 years seemed to be more a case of when rather than if. An outstanding lead at the top of the table meant that the only thing which could stop them would be a pandemic crisis. Unfortunately, such a situation happened. With the COVID-19 crisis spiralling out of control worldwide, the UK government had no choice but to enforce strict restrictions to reduce the spread of the virus. In the last-16 stages of the Champions League against Atletico Madrid, Liverpool's defeat marked their last game for the unforeseeable future. It was unclear if and when the season would resume with ordinary life on hold, leaving Liverpool FC's title hopes hanging in the balance.  
  After the COVID-19 enforced hiatus, football returned in June 2020, providing much-needed relief from the pandemic's gloomy undertone. While safety protocols spoiled the fun, including no crowds allowed, it was great to finally have football back on our screens. The unusual nature of the pandemic meant that every match was available for TV viewing, even handing BBC their first-ever live Premier League football broadcast. Liverpool FC returned to action against local rivals Everton, with the match ending in a null draw. The team beat Crystal Palace empathically a few days later, leaving them on the brink of title success.  
  Thursday, 25th June 2020, will live long in the memory of Liverpool fans everywhere. After Manchester City lost to Chelsea, Liverpool FC was officially crowned Premier League champions, delivering the club's first title in 30 years. The team celebrated their victory in style at the Formby Hall Golf Resort & Spa, having watched the match as a group. While COVID-19 restrictions were still in force, this didn't stop thousands of supporters from flocking to the stadium to chant, set off flares and fireworks, and party all night long. The club had to wait another month for their final home game to lift the trophy. While no crowds were allowed into the stadium, the Premier League ensured that Liverpool could mark the occasion in extravagant fashion while adhering to safety protocols. Jordan Henderson took to the steps of the famous Kop, and after his trademark Hendo Shuffle, he lifted the Premier League trophy high to end a long wait.  
  This is a season that no one will ever forget.  
  9 The 2020/21 Season Is One to Forget  
  While the title-winning season was one to remember, the following season proved to be one to forget. The players were back in training just weeks after lifting the Premier League trophy, preparing for a new campaign. Most of the 2020/21 season was played behind closed doors due to the threat of the coronavirus disease. Liverpool underwent a shorter pre-season than usual, including just three friendly matches and a low-profile training camp in Austria. The club bolstered their squad with experienced midfield maestro Thiago from Bayern Munich and Portuguese attacker Diogo Jota. Self-proclaimed 'Greek Scouser' Kostas Tsimikas was also brought in to provide cover at left-back for Andy Robertson.  
  The Premier League season began on the 12th of September, later than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which forced the previous campaign to run until July. Liverpool started the season with a thrilling 4-3 victory over newly promoted Leeds United, followed by wins against Chelsea and Arsenal. The excellent start to the season ended after a shock 7-2 defeat away to Aston Villa. A feisty Merseyside derby resulted in a devastating season-ending knee injury for Virgin van Dirk. The game ended in a 2-2 draw with Jordan Henderson netting a late goal, only for VAR to controversially rule it out for an offside.  
  Liverpool's season continued to take a turn for the worse in November when Joe Gomez was ruled out for the season with a serious knee injury, leaving the club with a defensive crisis. Recurring injuries for Joel Matip meant that midfielders Jordan Henderson and Fabinho were sometimes required to play in a makeshift defence. December saw some room for comfort with a limited crowd allowed back in Anfield for the first time since March 2020, before the surge of the latest virus variant forced additional restrictions. In January, the club had no choice but to buy reinforcements with Preston North End defender Ben Davies and a loan for Ozan Kabak. Liverpool's form struggled and endured its worst run in February, including defeats to Brighton & Hove Albion, Manchester City and Leicester City. Perhaps most embarrassingly, Everton won their first game at Anfield since 1999.  
  The team's luck began to change in March, leading to successive wins as the club looked to secure European football for next season. While disappointment came in the Champions League after being knocked out by Real Madrid, the hard-working defensive duo of Nat Phillips and Rhys Williams improved Liverpool's chances of a strong finish. Against all the odds, the club was on the edge of qualifying for Champions League football after an emphatic win at Old Trafford. However, a shaky performance against West Bromwich Albion created cause for concern. But with minutes to spare, an unlikely winner came from goalkeeper Alisson Becker! A crowd of 10,000 was welcomed back into Anfield on the last day of the season to watch Liverpool beat Crystal Palace, securing a third-place finish and Champions League football for next season.  
  10 Return to Triumph for the 2021/22 Season  
  With a tricky season over and Champions League football guaranteed, the 2021/22 season provided plenty of hope and excitement to look forward to, including the return of packed stadiums. Liverpool quickly quelled their defensive worries by bringing in French centre-back Ibrahima Konate from RB Leipzig for £36m. Long-term absences Virgil van Dijk and Joe Gomez were close to returning to action, while several key players received new contracts, including Fabinho, Alisson, Robertson and Henderson. It was, however, time to say goodbye to Gini Wijnaldum and Xherdan Shaqiri, who helped Liverpool succeed in recent years.  
  After a busy pre-season in Austria and France, Liverpool started their season with a convincing 3-0 victory against Norwich City, a game that marked Van Dijk's competitive return. The season started strongly but was marred with draws to Brentford and Brighton & Hove Albion and a loss to West Ham United. In the meantime, the team aced their challenging Champions League group with 6 wins out of 6. As for the League Cup, victories against Norwich City and Preston North End handed Liverpool a tie versus Leicester City. After a highly competitive and fierce match, the young team won on penalties.  
  In January, Liverpool had lots of catching up to ignite the title chase. Seemingly happy to do no transfer business, plans changed when Tottenham Hotspur closed in on Columbian forward Luis Diaz. As long-term admirers of the attacker, Liverpool jumped in to agree on a deal, and it didn't take long for him to make an impression. The team beat Arsenal in the League Cup to set up a Wembley final against Chelsea. After an exhausting penalty shoot-out, it came down to the keepers. Kepa missed his spot kick, providing Liverpool with their first trophy of the season and their first domestic cup in ten years. The team enjoyed similar success in the FA Cup, reaching another final against Chelsea. After another stalemate, it took Tsimikas' penalty to win Liverpool another trophy and their first FA Cup since 2006.  
  In the Premier League, Liverpool picked up successive wins to provide an exciting climax in the title chase. On the last day of the season, the team knew that if they won and Manchester City dropped points against Aston Villa, they would be crowned champions. A 2-0 scoreline for Villa offered some hope, but a late comeback for City secured them the title. However, there was still plenty left to play for. Liverpool still had a Champions League final to play, meaning they would play every match they could play this season. Liverpool largely dominated the final in Paris, but European giants Real Madrid used their experience to come out victorious.  
  Ultimately, Liverpool's quadruple hopes were dashed, but there was still plenty of pride in completing the double. Despite defeat just hours earlier, the team were welcomed home in style, with hundreds of thousands of fans attending a bus parade to celebrate this season's success.  
  11 2022/23 - What Will This Year Bring?  
  The 2022/23 season promises to be another exciting season for the Reds. With Jurgen Klopp signed up for another few years and Mo Salah ending speculation by renewing his contract, Liverpool's success last season is hopefully a taste of bigger things to come. Several iconic players have departed, including Sadio Mane and Divock Origi, but newcomers Darwin Nunez, Calvin Ramsay and Fabio Carvalho will spark life into the team. Liverpool visited South East Asia for their first pre-season tour in several years before heading to Austria for a training camp. The pre-season matches saw mixed results with three defeats and two wins, but most importantly, players gained valuable fitness ahead of a season that the World Cup will disrupt.  
  Here's to another successful year for Liverpool FC...  
  12 How Liverpool Football Club’s Home Has Changed Over the Years  
  Anfield Stadium may be remembered as the home of Liverpool Football Club, but it was once the ground of local rivals Everton FC for eight years! Had there not been a dispute over rent, Liverpool FC may never have been formed. The first LFC match at the famous ground was a 7-1 home win in a friendly against Rotherham Town. Only 200 spectators attended, significantly increasing to 5,000 for the club's first Football League match in 1893 against Lincoln City.  
  The stadium has changed in several ways over the years. One of the first significant developments occurred in 1895, with a new stand capable of holding 3,000 spectators. It was designed to feature a distinct red and white gable and resembled the main stand at St James' Park, home to Newcastle United. The Anfield Road stand was created in 1903, followed by the iconic Spion Kop three years later. The Kop has since become an iconic stand among the footballing community, representing one of the game's most passionate supporters. Outside the Spion Kop is a topmast belonging to the SS Great Eastern, an iron sailing steamship - it remains there as a flagpole after first being installed back in 1928! The stadium's first floodlights were installed for £12,000 in 1957, and the iconic Shankly Gates were introduced in 1982. Following the tragic Hillsborough disaster, grounds across the country had to be converted to all-seater stadiums. As a result, the Kemlyn Road stand was transformed into a double-decker layout comprising 11,000 seats, executive boxes, and function suites. The Kop remained single-tier, keeping one of its most iconic features, but was rebuilt with a reduced capacity of 12,390. A bronze statue dedicated to Bill Shankly and a Hillsborough memorial were soon added to the outer grounds of the stadium.  
  Various owners have tried to pursue plans to increase capacity and improve facilities. Plans for a new stadium surfaced as early as 2002, but nothing materialised after several failed designs, millions spent, and the economic collapse in 2008. After their takeover in 2010, the new American owners of Liverpool FC, Fenway Sports Group, led a thorough planning and consultation process, ultimately choosing an Anfield expansion as the preferred option. In 2014, work on expanding the Main Stand commenced, adding 8,5000 seats, including additional executive boxes and hospitality seats. The £115m construction project worked around Liverpool FC's hectic football schedule and ultimately brought the capacity up to 54,732, making it one of the largest football stadiums in the country. The first match under the expanded Main Stand saw Liverpool beat Leicester City 4-1 in a Premier League match in September 2016.  
  The magnificent Main Stand expansion may have significantly improved capacity, but there's always room to add more space for supporters. Work on the new Anfield Road Stand has been completed, introducing 7,000 new seats and increasing the stadium's capacity to 61,000. The redevelopment also created 400 new matchday jobs supporting the Liverpool City Region. Fans can expect revamped concourses, a posh sports bar lounge and stunning architecture that matches the new Main Stand. Perhaps best of all, spectators can finally wave goodbye to the frustrating seats with obstructed views. The new stand delivers on the owner's commitment to enhance the stadium's signature atmosphere and ensure the club can compete both on and off the field with the best football clubs in the world - all without leaving Anfield!  
  With an all-new electric buzz around the place and more space to check out, why not explore the home of Liverpool FC in person? Hop on our Liverpool FC bus tour and get up close and personal with Anfield Stadium!  
  13 A Complete List of Liverpool Football Club's Managers  
  Liverpool FC has had 21 full-time managers since the club was formed over 125 years ago, but do you know their names? We have rounded up a complete list of the managers who have led the club during its history and their achievements.  
  William Edward Barclay & John McKenna (1892-1896) - 2x Second Divisions  
  Tom Watson (1896-1915) - 2x First Division & 1x Second Division  
  George Patterson (1915-1919 & 1928-1936) - 0 Trophies  
  Matt McQueen (1923-1928) - 1x First Division  
  George Kay (1936-1951) - 1x First Division  
  Don Welsh (1951-1956) - 0 Trophies  
  Bill Shankly (1959-1974) - 3x First Divisions, 1x Second Division, 2x FA Cups, 4x Charity Shields & 1x UEFA Cup  
  Bob Paisley (1974-1983) - 6x First Divisions, 3x League Cups, 6x Charity Shields, 3x European Cups, 1x UEFA Cup & 1 Super Cup  
  Joe Fagan (1983-1985) - 1x First Division, 1x League Cup & 1x European Cup  
  Kenny Dalglish (1985-1991) - 3 First Divisions, 2 FA Cups & 4x Charity Shields  
  Rafael Benitez (2005-2010) - 1x FA Cup, 1x Charity Shield, 1x European Cup & 1x Super Cup  
  Roy Hodgson (2010-2011) - 0 Trophies  
  Brendan Rodgers (2012-2015) - 0 Trophies  
  Jurgen Klopp (2015-present) - 1x European Cup, 1x UEFA Super Cup, 1x FIFA Club World Cup, 1x Premier League, 1x League Cup, 1x FA Cup & 1x Community Shield  
  14 Famous Quotes From Former Managers and Players  
  Those associated with Liverpool FC have never been shy at letting the world know their thoughts. Here are some of the best quotes that former players and managers have expressed over the years.  
  "Liverpool without European football is like a banquet without wine." - Roy Evans  
  "My idea was to build Liverpool into a bastion of invincibility. Had Napoleon had that idea he would have conquered the bloody world. I wanted Liverpool to be untouchable. My idea was to build Liverpool up and up until eventually everyone would have to submit and give in." - Bill Shankly  
  The most important relationship at a football club is not between the manager and the chairman, but the players and the fans." - John Toshack  
  "I just wanted to jump into the stand and start celebrating with those wonderful fans." - Steven Gerrard  
  "The only thing I fear is missing an open goal in front of the Kop. I would die if that were to happen. When they start singing 'You'll Never Walk Alone' my eyes start to water. There have been times when I've actually been crying while I've been playing" - Kevin Keegan  
  "It's best being a striker. If you miss five then score the winner, you're a hero. The goalkeeper can play a blinder, then let one in… and he's a villain." - Ian Rush  
  "If Shankly was the Anfield foreman, Paisley was the brickie, ready to build an empire with his own hands." - Tommy Smith  
  "There is no one anywhere in the world at any stage who is any bigger or any better than this football club." - Sir Kenny Dalglish  
  "Before, I said that they were maybe the best supporters in England. Now maybe they are the best supporters in Europe." - Rafael Benitez  
  "I'm just one of the people who stands on the kop. They think the same as I do, and I think the same as they do. It's a kind of marriage of people who like each other." - Bill Shankly  
  "Sometimes I feel I’m hardly wanted in this Liverpool team. If I get two or three saves to make I’ve had a busy day." - Ray Clemence  
  "Liverpool are magic. Everton are tragic." - Emlyn Hughes  
  "If you're in the penalty area and don't know what to do with the ball, put it in the net and we'll discuss the options later." - Bob Paisley  
  "We might be the little chihuahua that runs in between the legs of the horses." - Brendan Rodgers  
  "Who’s bigger than Liverpool?" - Jamie Carragher  
  "Liverpool wouldn't be the club it is today without Bill Shankly and Bob Paisley and the players who played there. When I first went there it was a typical Second Division ground, and look at it now!" - Ian Callaghan  
  "We have to change, from doubters to believers—now." - Jurgen Klopp  
  Our vehicles are wheelchair friendly. Call 0151 933 2324 if you have other accessibility requirements.  
  Our Partners  
  We work with some of Liverpool’s leading tourism organisations in order to provide the very best experience the city has to offer  
  ×  
  Book Your Bus Tour  
  The freedom to explore is all yours. Choose your preferred tour below.  
  LFC City Explorer  
  Take a journey through time and discover the rich history of Liverpool Football Club. LFC City Explorer takes you towards Anfield, featuring the best city views and a tour guide.  
  Beatles Explorer  
  Ride the ultimate Beatles history tour. The Beatles Explorer bus visits historic locations, including Penny Lane and Strawberry Field. Enjoy facts and humour from a live tour guide.  
  City Explorer Liverpool  
  Go sightseeing in Liverpool with City Explorer. Our ultimate hop on, hop off bus tour visits the best destinations across Liverpool. Learn facts about the city from a live tour guide.  
  Uncovering Liverpool FC History: Journey of the Reds  
  Liverpool Football Club, also known as Liverpool or The Reds, is a historic and influential football institution. Founded on March 15, 1892, Liverpool aimed to rival Everton, another esteemed club in the city. Over the years, Liverpool has become a global powerhouse in football, with a dedicated fanbase and a rich history of success.  
  The iconic red and white colors of Liverpool serve as a symbol of the club’s identity, adorning the jerseys of players and waving in the hands of passionate fans. Anfield, the club’s stadium, has witnessed countless triumphs and holds an unparalleled atmosphere when filled with the chants and roars of the crowd.  
  Liverpool has achieved numerous sporting accomplishments, with eighteen English league titles and six UEFA Champions League victories. These successes have solidified Liverpool’s status as one of the most triumphant clubs in international football history.  
  One of Liverpool’s defining features is the anthem “You’ll Never Walk Alone,” which embodies the unyielding solidarity between the club and its supporters. This anthem resonates not only within Anfield but also within the global community of Liverpool enthusiasts.  
  Throughout its history, Liverpool has been guided by visionary managers such as Bill Shankly, Bob Paisley, and Jürgen Klopp. Each manager has added their own chapter to the success and influence of the club.  
  Liverpool’s essence extends beyond the football pitch, as the club is committed to social responsibility. After the tragic Hillsborough disaster in 1989, Liverpool took a leading role in advocating for stadium safety reforms and seeking justice for the victims.  
  Since 2015, under the leadership of Jürgen Klopp, Liverpool has experienced a transformative period of innovation and exciting gameplay. The team achieved unprecedented milestones, including winning the historic Premier League title in the 2019/2020 season.  
  Liverpool Football Club represents not just a collective of fans and players but also a beacon of history, tradition, and aspiration. Its journey from a local contender to an international powerhouse serves as an inspiration to generations, showcasing the power of dedication, passion, and collective effort in achieving excellence.  
  Liverpool FC History: Quick Takeaways  
  Liverpool Football Club, also known as Liverpool or The Reds, is a historic and influential football institution.  
  Liverpool has a rich history of success, with eighteen English league titles and six UEFA Champions League victories.  
  The iconic red and white colors and the anthem “You’ll Never Walk Alone” are important symbols of Liverpool’s identity.  
  Visionary managers, such as Bill Shankly, Bob Paisley, and Jürgen Klopp, have played a key role in Liverpool’s success.  
  Liverpool is committed to social responsibility, particularly after the Hillsborough disaster in 1989.  
  The Birth of Liverpool FC  
  Founded on March 15, 1892, Liverpool aimed to rival Everton, another esteemed club in the city. This marked the birth of a football institution that would go on to redefine the sport and leave an indelible mark on the world of football. From its humble beginnings, Liverpool FC embarked on a journey that would see the club rise to unprecedented heights of success and influence.  
  With a strong determination to establish itself as a force to be reckoned with, Liverpool quickly set out to assemble a team of talented players and a dedicated fanbase. The club’s early years were marked by the recruitment of players such as John Houlding, who would become instrumental in shaping Liverpool’s future.  
  The formation of Liverpool FC was not without its challenges. The club faced resistance from rival teams and financial difficulties, but with the unwavering support of its fans and the leadership of its founding members, Liverpool overcame these obstacles and began to make its mark on the football world.  
  As Liverpool grew in stature, it became evident that the club had a unique vision and a relentless pursuit of excellence. This commitment to success and the unwavering belief in its own abilities laid the foundation for what would become a historic journey for Liverpool FC.  
  The Birth of Liverpool FC  
  “Liverpool FC’s journey began with a clear ambition to challenge and surpass the established clubs in the city. The club’s founders laid the groundwork for success, and over the years, Liverpool FC has grown into an iconic institution, known for its rich history and unwavering dedication to the sport.”  
  As Liverpool FC continues to make its mark on football history, the legacy of its founding members lives on. The birth of Liverpool FC marked the start of an incredible journey, one that would shape the club’s identity and inspire generations of fans across the globe.  
  The Colors and Crest of Liverpool  
  The iconic red and white colors of Liverpool serve as a symbol of the club’s identity, adorning the jerseys of players and waving in the hands of passionate fans. The vibrant red of Liverpool’s jerseys represents the passion, determination, and attacking style of play that the club is known for. It is a color that demands attention and signifies the vibrancy of the team’s performances on the pitch. The white accents on the jerseys provide a clean and classic contrast, adding a touch of elegance to the club’s overall look.  
  The Evolution of Liverpool’s Crest  
  Over the years, Liverpool’s crest has undergone several changes, each capturing a different aspect of the club’s history and identity. The current crest features the iconic Liver Bird, a mythical creature that is synonymous with the city of Liverpool. It proudly sits at the top of the crest, wings spread wide, representing the club’s soaring ambitions and its connection to the city it calls home.  
  The crest also incorporates the Shankly Gates, which pays homage to the legendary Bill Shankly, Liverpool’s most successful manager. The inclusion of the Shankly Gates is a reminder of the club’s rich history and the values instilled by Shankly during his tenure.  
  Overall, the colors and crest of Liverpool FC are a visual representation of the club’s heritage, passion, and unwavering support from its dedicated fanbase. They serve as a constant reminder of the values and traditions that have shaped Liverpool FC into the renowned football institution it is today.  
  Anfield: The Home of Liverpool  
  Anfield, the club’s stadium, has witnessed countless triumphs and holds an unparalleled atmosphere when filled with the chants and roars of the crowd. Since its establishment in 1884, Anfield has been the cherished home ground of Liverpool Football Club, providing a stage for historic moments and unforgettable matches.  
  With a seating capacity of over 53,000, Anfield stands as a testament to the devotion of Liverpool’s passionate fanbase. The famous Spion Kop, named after a battle site in the Boer War, is an iconic stand that serves as the heart of the stadium, where fervent supporters display their unwavering loyalty and create an electric atmosphere.  
  The stadium’s rich history is intertwined with Liverpool’s success. From the time of Bill Shankly, the legendary manager who transformed the club in the 1960s, to the modern era under Jürgen Klopp, Anfield has been a fortress where Liverpool has secured countless victories, both domestically and internationally.  
  To truly grasp the significance of Anfield, one must experience the spine-tingling rendition of the club’s anthem, “You’ll Never Walk Alone,” sung in unison by the fans. This moving display of solidarity encapsulates the strong bond between the club and its supporters, creating an atmosphere that is unrivaled in the world of football.  
  “Anfield, with its rich history and passionate atmosphere, embodies the spirit of Liverpool FC. The stadium is a place where dreams are realized, and the roar of the crowd fuels the players’ determination to succeed.” – Jürgen Klopp  
  Anfield’s hallowed grounds have hosted unforgettable matches, including the club’s historic comeback against Barcelona in the 2018/2019 UEFA Champions League semi-final. Moments like these have etched Liverpool’s name indelibly in football history, further cementing Anfield’s status as a legendary venue.  
  A Glance at Anfield’s Historic Achievements  
  With 18 English league titles and 6 UEFA Champions League triumphs, Anfield has witnessed Liverpool’s remarkable successes.  
  In 1988/1989, Anfield bore witness to Liverpool’s last league title victory before their historic Premier League win in the 2019/2020 season.  
  Notable European triumphs at Anfield include the thrilling 2004/2005 UEFA Champions League final, where Liverpool came back from 3-0 down to defeat AC Milan in a penalty shootout.  
  In 2019, Anfield witnessed Liverpool’s unprecedented 4-0 victory against Barcelona, completing a remarkable comeback to reach the Champions League final.  
  Anfield remains an emblem of Liverpool FC’s formidable history and enduring spirit. Its impact on the club, its fans, and the footballing world at large cannot be overstated. As Liverpool continues to make history, Anfield stands as a hallowed ground, where the echoes of past triumphs spur the team on to new heights.  
  Liverpool’s Sporting Achievements  
  Liverpool Football Club has a storied history of impressive achievements, solidifying its place as one of the most successful clubs in English and European football. Over the years, The Reds have celebrated eighteen English league titles, showcasing their dominance in domestic football. Additionally, Liverpool has triumphed in the UEFA Champions League on six occasions, cementing their reputation as a force to be reckoned with on the international stage.  
  The club’s success in the English league is a testament to their consistent excellence. With eighteen league titles to their name, Liverpool stands as one of the most successful clubs in English football history. These victories have been hard-fought and well-deserved, with Liverpool displaying a winning mentality and a commitment to excellence season after season.  
  In addition to their domestic triumphs, Liverpool has also made a significant impact in European competitions. The club’s six UEFA Champions League victories highlight their ability to compete against the best teams in Europe. These moments of glory have provided unforgettable memories for Liverpool fans worldwide.  
  Liverpool’s League Titles:  
  The legacy of success at Liverpool Football Club is a testament to the dedication, talent, and passion of the players and managers who have represented the club throughout its history. It is these achievements that have cemented Liverpool’s status as one of the most iconic and prestigious football clubs in the world.  
  Iconic Moments and Transformative Managers  
  Throughout its history, Liverpool has been guided by visionary managers who have left an indelible mark on the club’s legacy. From the legendary Bill Shankly to the tactical genius of Bob Paisley and the charismatic leadership of Jürgen Klopp, these managers have shaped the team’s playing style, instilled a winning mentality, and fostered a deep connection with the fans.  
  The Shankly Era: Laying the Foundation  
  Bill Shankly, who managed Liverpool from 1959 to 1974, is regarded as the architect of the club’s modern success. Under his stewardship, Liverpool rose from the Second Division to become a dominant force in English football. Shankly emphasized teamwork, discipline, and an attacking style of play, revolutionizing the club’s approach. His famous quote, “Liverpool was made for me and I was made for Liverpool,” reflects his deep affection and commitment to the club.  
  Shankly’s legacy was carried forward by his successor, Bob Paisley, who managed Liverpool from 1974 to 1983. Paisley seamlessly continued the club’s winning tradition, leading the team to unprecedented success. With Paisley at the helm, Liverpool won six league titles, three League Cups, and three European Cups, solidifying its reputation as a dominant force in European football.  
  The Klopp Era: A New Chapter of Success  
  Jürgen Klopp’s appointment as Liverpool manager in 2015 ushered in a new era of excitement, innovation, and success. Known for his charismatic personality and “heavy-metal” style of play, Klopp revitalized the team and instilled a never-say-die attitude. Under his guidance, Liverpool achieved remarkable milestones, including winning the UEFA Champions League in 2019 and the Premier League title in 2020 after a 30-year wait.  
  “We are Liverpool, we have to be brave, we have to be full of desire, and we have to be ready for anything. That’s the plan.” – Jürgen Klopp  
  Klopp’s tactical acumen, exceptional man-management skills, and ability to create a close-knit team have endeared him to players and fans alike. His passionate touchline celebrations and infectious enthusiasm have made him an iconic figure in Liverpool’s history, leading the team to unprecedented success both domestically and in Europe.  
  These transformative managers and their iconic moments have shaped Liverpool’s history and contributed to its enduring success. Their legacies continue to inspire and motivate the current generation of players and fans, as the club marches forward on its journey towards further greatness.  
  The Anthem: You’ll Never Walk Alone  
  One of Liverpool’s defining features is the anthem “You’ll Never Walk Alone”, which embodies the unyielding solidarity between the club and its supporters. This iconic song has become synonymous with Liverpool FC and holds a special place in the hearts of fans around the world.  
  Originally a show tune from the 1945 musical Carousel, the song was adopted by Liverpool in the 1960s and quickly became an anthem that resonates with the club’s values and the spirit of the city. The powerful lyrics and melodic chorus evoke a sense of unity and strength, reminding everyone that no matter the challenges, they will never be alone.  
  “You’ll Never Walk Alone” is often sung passionately by Liverpool fans before, during, and after matches, creating an electric atmosphere in the stadium. The sight and sound of thousands of supporters standing together, raising their scarves, and singing in unison is a truly awe-inspiring experience.  
  C  
  Connor  
  Connor Callahan is a Youth Soccer Coach and Entrepreneur, best known for founding the highly successful Primal Keeper Academy and the soccer training program, Better Ball Control. He coaches at South Orlando Soccer Club and Boone High School. With over a decade of experience, Connor has a proven track record of leading hundreds of youth soccer players across competitive South Eastern Soccer Seasons and Tournaments like Nona Cup, Space Coast Clash, SOSC Labor Day Cup, and many more. His expert advise has been been viewed by hundreds of thousands of viewers on YouTube. Additionally, Connor’s soccer coaching strategies shared via social media platforms reach thousands of viewers annually.  
  Email *  
  Website  
  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  
  Stress Less. Score More. Enjoy Soccer.  
  I dive deep into athletic potential, soccer player lifestyle hacking, and individual training to give you a digestible way to improve your game.  
  Primal Newsletter Weekly Viral Content  
  Keeping You In The Game Every Friday Morning Viral Content, Training Tips, And Top Products From All Across The Web!  
  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.AcceptNoPrivacy policy  
  Liverpool injury update: Andy Robertson, Darwin Nunez, Trent Alexander-Arnold latest news and return dates  
  Reds remain without host of key players for Premier League title run-in  
  Liverpool’s seemingly constant injury crisis got worse over the course of the international break.  
  The Reds have been without a host of key players for much of the campaign so far and were beaten 4-3 by Manchester United in an FA Cup thriller before the pausing of domestic football.  
  The German will be desperate not to incur any more fitness worries ahead of the run-in with his Carabao Cup winners still fighting for further glory in both the Premier League and Europa League ahead of his emotional summer exit, beginning against Brighton at Anfield on Sunday.  
  Andy Robertson  
  Andy Robertson picked up a second injury of the season while representing Scotland on Tuesday night.  
  The left-back was forced off as his country were defeated by Northern Ireland at Hampden Park, having already missed 18 games due to a shoulder issue sustained on Tartan Army duty.  
  "He's just come off the pitch, let the injury take its course," said manager Steve Clarke.  
  "He'll go back to his club and they'll assess it and hopefully it's not too serious."  
  Potential return date: Unknown  
  Darwin Nunez  
  The popular striker suffered a hamstring issue during that painful defeat at Old Trafford and subsequently withdrew from the Uruguay squad for friendly matches against the Basque Country and Ivory Coast.  
  However, Klopp said after the United game that “hopefully it was not too bad”, leading to optimism that Nunez may have avoided a lengthy lay-off.  
  Potential return date: Unknown  
  Trent Alexander-Arnold  
  Trent Alexander-Arnold has not played since suffering the recurrence of a knee injury during the 3-1 win over Burnley on February 10, when he was withdrawn at half-time.  
  The versatile right-back was unavailable for selection for England’s friendlies against Brazil and Belgium, with Klopp previously claiming that he could return the week after the international break.  
  Following the Brighton game, Liverpool host bottom club Sheffield United on April 4 before another trip to Old Trafford three days later.  
  Potential return date: April 7, vs Manchester United  
  Nunez and Alexander-Arnold remain injury concerns for the Reds  
  AFP via Getty Images  
  Alisson Becker  
  Liverpool have been missing their first-choice goalkeeper since the costly defeat by title rivals Arsenal in early February due to a hamstring injury that was described by Klopp as being “rather serious but not season-ending”.  
  There have been little by way of new updates since then and it remains to be seen exactly when the influential 31-year-old will be back fit, with deputy Caoimhin Kelleher set to continue in goal for now.  
  Alisson is not involved in the Brazil squad who will meet Spain next after beating England.  
  Potential return date: April 2024  
  Luis Diaz  
  Like Nunez, fellow South American attacker Diaz was hurt during the FA Cup thriller against Manchester United, with Klopp confirming that he had a groin complaint after being taken off in extra time.  
  However, such an injury did not stop him from joining up with the Colombia squad and he delivered an impressive 90-minute display in Friday’s 1-0 friendly win over Spain at the London Stadium.  
  Diaz will be expected to feature again for his country against Romania in Madrid on Tuesday and, assuming there are no further setbacks, he should be fine to play against Brighton at the weekend.  
  Potential return date: March 31, vs Brighton  
  Cody Gakpo  
  The third player to suffer an injury against Manchester United, Gakpo twisted his ankle at Old Trafford after coming off the bench to replace Mohamed Salah in the second half of normal time.  
  However, like Diaz, he still went off on international duty and played all but eight minutes of the Netherlands’ 4-0 friendly win over Scotland in Amsterdam on Friday night.  
  Gakpo should also be involved in the high-profile meeting with Germany in Frankfurt on Tuesday and then be available to face Brighton at Anfield.  
  Potential return date: March 31, vs Brighton  
  Diogo Jota  
  Jota was stretchered off in the first half of the 4-1 win over Brentford on February 17 after suffering a serious knee injury.  
  Klopp said the Portuguese forward was facing “months” on the sidelines, although again insisted that the problem was not season-ending.  
  In his most recent update, the Reds boss said that, like Alexander-Arnold, Jota could be back the week following the international break, potentially putting him on track for at least some involvement against Sheffield United and/or Manchester United.  
  Potential return date: April 7, vs Manchester United  
  Jota suffered a knee injury in February  
  AP  
  Curtis Jones  
  Much like Jota and Nunez, Jones was forced off in that costly win over Brentford last month having sustained an ankle knock.  
  He has not featured since then and had no chance of making Gareth Southgate’s final England squad before he names his travelling party for the European Championship in the summer.  
  However, Klopp said earlier this month that Jones could be fit to play some part against Brighton when the Premier League returns.  
  Potential return date: March 31, vs Brighton  
  Ibrahima Konate  
  The French defender suffered a thigh injury that forced him off in the second half of the first leg of Liverpool’s thumping Europa League last-16 win over Sparta Prague on March 7.  
  He sat out the subsequent three games, but was still named in the latest France squad by Didier Deschamps.  
  Konate was an unused substitute for Friday’s 2-0 home defeat by Euro 2024 hosts Germany in Lyon and then played against Chile on Tuesday night.  
  Potential return date: March 31, vs Brighton  
  Thiago Alcantara  
  The injury-plagued Thiago suffered an injury setback just minutes after coming off the bench for his first appearance in 10 months against Arsenal in early February.  
  Klopp has since said he is unsure when the Spanish midfielder will return or if he can play again this season.  
  With his contract due to expire in the summer and no extension agreed, Thiago may have already played his final game for Liverpool.  
  Potential return date: Unknown  
  Stefan Bajcetic  
  Bajcetic has been limited to just two appearances this term due to a variety of frustrating injury setbacks and has not played at all for Liverpool since September.  
  However, he has stepped up his return efforts of late and displayed his encouraging progress in a series of Instagram updates showing his training sessions - the last of which was accompanied by the caption: “Can’t wait for what’s coming.”  
  Klopp previously said that Bajcetic was now in a “much better place” and likely to be part of team training at Kirkby after the international break, but warned he was effectively in his “pre-season” in terms of fitness.  
  Potential return date: April 2024  
  Joel Matip  
  The experienced centre-back underwent surgery in December on an ACL tear suffered in the comeback win over Fulham.  
  The injury was considered season-ending and like Thiago, Matip is out of contract in the summer and may not play for Liverpool again.  
  Potential return date: Summer 2024  
  PA  
  Ben Doak  
  The teenage winger suffered a meniscus tear in December and underwent surgery, with a multiple-month layoff expected.  
  However, there have been reports that Doak is well ahead of schedule in his recovery and could play again before the end of the season.  
  Jurgen Klopp’s side were dealt a couple of hefty blows before the international break, losing top spot after a controversial draw with City before being knocked out of the FA Cup by Manchester United in dramatic fashion.  
  But Liverpool will have regrouped over the international break and, fresh injury problems aside, are capable of putting together a mighty sprint to the finish.  
  Up next is a Brighton side on a run of five defeats in their last six away games, but still with plenty of reason to believe in another European finish.  
  Date, kick-off time and venue  
  Liverpool vs Brighton is scheduled for a 2pm GMT kick-off on Sunday, March 31, 2024.  
  The match will take place at Anfield.  
  These teams played out a 2-2 draw in the reverse fixture  
  Getty Images  
  Where to watch Liverpool vs Brighton  
  TV channel: In the UK, the game will be televised live on Sky Sports Main Event and Premier League.  
  Live stream: Subscribers can also catch the contest live online via the Sky Go app.  
  Live blog: You can follow all the action on matchday via Standard Sport’s live blog.  
  Liverpool vs Brighton team news  
  However, the Reds are otherwise expecting to get at least a couple of names back from their lengthy absentee list. Curtis Jones and Darwin Nunez could be fit while Ibrahima Konate returned to action with France during the international period.  
  Trent Alexander-Arnold and Diogo Jota are set to require another week or so before they can make their comebacks.  
  James Milner and Joao Pedro are top of Brighton’s list of potential returnees.  
  Evan Ferguson and Danny Welbeck are competing to start up front with Ansu Fati another contender to enter the attack.  
  Brighton have caused some real problems for Liverpool over the years yet they have struggled a bit more in big games this season.  
  If the Reds turn up, few teams can stop them and this one may just end up being about who can outscore the other.  
  Liverpool to win, 4-2.  
  Head to head (h2h) history and results  
  The Reds have won just one of their last eight games against the Seagulls.  
  Introduction  
  Liverpool’s history is not just a mere story but it’s a mixture of triumphs, heartbreaks, tension, and hair-raising episodes. In the past and recent years, fans have cheered and gasped for breath during the club’s matches. Supported by at least 200 supporter clubs in over fifty countries, Liverpool not only stands as a city but as a club that has written history; redefining the exact term “unpredictable”  
  Who is the Founder of Liverpool FC  
  Following Everton’s eviction from Anfield in 1892 by John Houlding, Anfield was left vacant and no team could play games on it. Houlding came up with the answer to the quandary by establishing his soccer club – Liverpool. formed in June 1892. Please note, that this is not similar to Liverpool Ramblers AFC, a team that was founded a decade earlier.  
  First-Ever Victory  
  In the year 1901, the club shone with their first-ever win in the League Championship. There was a stunning streak of 9 wins and 3 draws in their last dozen games. This was a good start for the Reds. After their remarkable wins and return to the city with a trophy, the club got a joyous welcome for the heroes. The club’s fans couldn’t hide their joy and celebration as they hoisted Alex Raisbeck, the team’s Captain by then, above their heads.  
  Trophies Won by Liverpool  
  During the Second World War, the Liverpool club was good on its toes though not super stable. They roared with victory after winning their fourth League title in the year 1947. The team travailed through the rough path particularly after they descended to the second division 7 years later. This wasn’t appealing until that moment when Bill Shankly became the well-able manager to push things in the right direction.  
  Bill Shankly’s Appointment as Manager  
  After Bill’s appointment in 1959, he took the right and bold step by letting go of the first members of the club. He later played his cards well by transforming the team’s storage room into the popular Boot room. This room was unique since coaches would meet secretly probably to discuss new developments  
  Bob Paisley Takes Over Club’s Leadership  
  Bill’s uncommon techniques paid off swiftly. Liverpool rose to the First Tier in the year 1962. The club went snagging the League’s title in 1966 and 1973 not forgetting the 1965 and 1974 FA cups. Still, aspiring hearts to persevere and believe, the club also displayed its expertise by nabbing its initial trophy in the European jurisdiction in the 1973 UEFA Cup. Amid all these victories, Bill stepped down. Probably, he had ‘overworked’ so he saw it good to pass the mantle to Bob Paisley. After his retirement, he didn’t cease to become part of Liverpool’s board until his demise in 1996.  
  Stretching the Trophy’s Cabinet  
  From Bill to Bob, Liverpool’s wins did not stagger. With Paisley on board, the club turned out to be a force worth reckoning with. For 9 years, they astonished everyone by scooping 6 League titles and 3 League Cups. This was a great time to showcase the undoubted level of resilience. Liverpool ruled across the walls of Europe, particularly through the possession of 3 European Cups and a UEFA Cup between 1976 and 1981  
  Joe Fagan Takes on the Deck  
  Upon the retirement of Paisley in 1983, Joe Fagan took over the deck. The change in leadership didn’t deny Liverpool the chance to walk away with triumph and great achievements. Fagan’s first season was clothed with fame and Liverpool’s light moments.  
  Disasters Under Joe  
  Still, under Fagan’s reign, Juventus had a clash with Liverpool in the Finals of the European Cup. This match was embedded with tragic incidents of Heysel’s calamity. Some of the soccer fans caused chaos and disorder that created a gigantic collapse of the stadium wall. The tragedy claimed 39 lives and the overall blame was directed to the Liverpool fans. These repercussions led to Liverpool being banned from participating in the English clubs in European games.  
  Over 20,000 Supporters in Hillsborough  
  Liverpool’s history had tangible downs but with European football off the arena, Liverpool club re-channeled their minds to the local soccer games. Some of their wins in the 1985 FA Cup and other League titles that followed up were overwhelmed by another disruptive block. After the 1988 Liverpool League titles the semi-final competition caused another tragic disaster that claimed at least 94 lives of their supporters. It was a crowd crush that marked the worrying Hillsborough calamity. This is still in the memories of most fans and the entire English Football fraternity.  
  Clinching another Title in the 9th League  
  In the year 1990, Liverpool clinched another title in the ninth League. Besides the victory, their fortunes made a significant downturn. There were fewer victories compared to the energy in the past years during Bill and Bob’s reigns. This suggested a fading glory and fame evolving around the football club.  
  Scooping the Fifth European Cup  
  In 2005, they seemed to have realized room for another opportunity to soar higher and higher. Their focus began soaring in a dramatic turn of scenarios, particularly in the Champions League finals. Liverpool trailed 3-0 in a half-game with AC Milan getting the win in a nail-biter penalty shooting. Nevertheless, this significant triumph turned out to be a tangible pinnacle despite the ugly events of relative drop. After one decade, the club regularly got themselves in the space of various English teams with sparse Cup wins.  
  Conclusion  
  As runners-up, Liverpool was good at flirting with Premier League glow especially in the years 2002, 2014, and 2019. Nevertheless, following the instruction of Jurgen Klopp in 2020, the pieces were placed in an excellent position. Jurgen’s leadership made Liverpool surge ahead of the game and therefore painted the sky red with a reign. The recent pandemic, Covid-19, caused an interruption, particularly in the League’s culmination but rested in the club’s favor. Liverpool’s determined pursuit courtesy of Jurgen’s strategic bravery, gave them the greatly desired Premier League Title after a few years of close misses.  
  Stay tuned for more updates on Liverpool FC Times and Stories. Your thoughts are always welcome in the comments section. Thank you for your continued support!  
  YNWA (You’ll Never Walk Alone)! The Liverpool FC Times Team LiverpoolFCTimes.com  
  Liverpool 2024/25 home kit 'leaked' as new Nike design emerges with nod to famous strip  
  Liverpool's home kit for the 2024/25 season has been 'leaked' online. It features a nod to a famous strip from the Reds' recent history as well as a new collar design.  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  A possible new Liverpool home kit for the 2024/25 season has been 'leaked' online, with Nike's designs showing a big change.  
  Nike has been making Liverpool's kits since the 2020/21 season, taking over from New Balance. This season marks the fourth year of the partnership between the Reds and the sportswear giant.  
  Since the start of the partnership, Nike's choices for Liverpool's home, away and third kits have received mixed reviews. These reviews are likely to increase in the coming months as rumors about the new kit start to circulate.  
  The latest rumors are about what Liverpool's home kit might look like next season. A design has appeared on social media showing what the Reds might be wearing at Anfield in 2024/25.  
  On X, formerly Twitter, fumlerRawk has shared a possible design for Liverpool's next home kit. The strip looks similar to famous Reds shirts from the past, especially the one from the 2019/20 Premier League title-winning season.  
  The kit has a yellow, red and white collar, with the Nike and Liverpool badges also in yellow. In a nod to famous Reds kits from the past, the shirt also has yellow pinstripes.  
  If you look closely, you can see that the pinstripes spell out 'YNWA', which stands for the club's famous anthem 'You'll Never Walk Alone'.  
  Next season will be a fresh start for Liverpool and Anfield. Jürgen Klopp is set to depart in the summer, paving the way for a new manager.  
  Along with a new kit, there will be a new face in the Anfield dugout for the 2024/25 season. Xabi Alonso, currently at Bayer Leverkusen, is the early favourite to take over, while Rúben Amorim (Sporting CP), Roberto De Zerbi (Brighton) and Julian Nagelsmann (Germany national team) are also being considered.  
  Liverpool.com says: Well, it looks fairly smart to be fair. Rather inevitably though, reaction on social media has been mixed, with some loving it, while others hate it.  
  * An AI tool was used to add an extra layer to the editing process for this story. You can read the original story in the Liverpool ECHO by clicking here.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Liverpool FC  
  Since they were founded in 1892, the Liverpool Football Club name was synonymous with fame and glory. Internationally, Liverpool is the most successful British club of all time with plenty of European trophies on their record. They are one of the most popular football teams in the world, with over 200 supporter clubs in at least 50 different countries. And yet, their magnificent history will forever be plagued by two of the worst stadium disasters of all time: Heysel and Hillsborough.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1892 Country: England City: Liverpool  
  Home grounds  
  Anfield Road (1892-)  
  Club records  
  Most games played: Ian Callaghan (857) Top goalscorer: Ian Rush (346)  
  Liverpool team picture from the club's first season.  
  History  
  Following the moving of Everton to Goodison Park in 1892, the club's then-president John Houlding suddenly found himself with the rights to Anfield stadium and no team to play on it. Always a practical man, Houlding quickly decided to circumvent this problem by forming his own club – Liverpool (should not be confused with Liverpool Ramblers AFC that was founded ten years earlier). After becoming a member of the Football League in 1893, the team managed to get promoted to first division after one season in the second division. Early on, Liverpool established themselves as one of England's top clubs, winning League titles in 1901, 1906, 1922 and 1923.  
  The Bill Shankly era  
  Though an immensely popular club even then, Liverpool FC were not particularly consistent in the post-WWII period. After claiming their fourth League title in 1947, the club entered a period of mediocrity which culminated with their relegation to Second Division in 1954. Things took a turn for the better after Bill Shankly was hired as manager, however; Shankly's first order of business was to release the entire first team squad. He then turned the club's storage room into the famous "Boot Room", a place that would serve as the coaches' secret meeting place for the next three decades. Shankly's unorthodox methods bore fruit soon enough. After making their way back to the First Division in 1962, Liverpool won the League two years later. During the reminder of Shankly's tenure as manager, they claimed an additional two League titles (1966, 1973), two FA Cups (1965, 1974), as well as their first European trophy – the 1973 UEFA Cup. In 1974, Shankly resigned from his job due to a need for a break, leaving the club in the hands of his assistant, Bob Paisley.  
  Adding more trophies to the collection  
  The change of personnel did not do much to stop Liverpool's dominance. Under Paisley, Liverpool were a remarkably consistent team; during his nine years in charge, the club won an incredible six League titles and three League Cups. Their reign spread over Europe as well, with Liverpool winning one UEFA Cup and three European Cups in the period between 1976 and 1981. After Paisley's retirement in 1983, his assistant Joe Fagan continued the successful tradition by leading the team to a Treble in his first season in charge. Liverpool line up 1977 European Cup final v. B. Mönchengladbach (3-1)  
  The Heysel and Hillsborough tragedies  
  In 1985, Liverpool faced Juventus in the European Cup final. Unfortunately, that match is now widely known as the scene of the Heysel disaster; after some unruly fans caused a perimeter wall to collapse, 39 fans were crushed to death. In the aftermath, considering the blame for the accident was placed solely on Liverpool fans, all English clubs were banned from European competitions for the next five years. In the absence of European games, Liverpool started focusing on the domestic competitions. But after winning two more League titles in 1986 and 1988 and an FA Cup in 1985, tragedy struck again. In the 1989 FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest, 94 fans died in a crowd crush only six minutes after the game had started. To this day, the Hillsborough disaster remains the worst stadium disaster in English football. After claiming their ninth League title in 1990, Liverpool entered a downward spiral. With only a couple of Cup trophies and some mediocre league finishes in the 90s and early 00s, it seemed like Liverpool's star had waned. Nevertheless, they proved their mettle in the most exhilarating way possible; after reaching the Champions League final in 2005, they recovered from 3-0 down at half-time to eventually beat Milan on penalties. As it turned out, this extraordinary victory was the club's swan song. During the next decade, Liverpool were mostly seen playing second fiddle to other English clubs, with only two Cup trophies and a second-place league finish to show for their efforts.  
  A return to the top  
  Liverpool was close to win Premier League as runners up in 2002, 2014 and 2019. But in 2020 everything fall into place, Liverpool led by German coach Jürgen Klopp pulled away from the competition and the sky turned red when the league was finally decided, after being interrupted for a period due to the coronavirus outbreak.  
  Logo  
  The most characteristic part of the logo is the drawing of the mythical “Liver Bird”, which is the symbol of the City of Liverpool. The same creature could also be seen as a decoration on Royal Liver Building in Liverpool. In the upper part of the logo the well-known Liverpool FC saying "You'll never walk alone" is printed.  
  Liverpool FC timeline  
  1892 The club is established. 1893 Member of the Football League. 1894 First season in Division 1. 1901 Winning Division 1 for the first time. 1959 Bill Shankly is appointed as manager. 1965 Winning their first FA Cup. 1973 First UEFA Cup trophy. 1977 First European Cup title. 1981 First League Cup title. 1981 Winning their first British Double (the League and the League Cup). 1984 Winning their first Treble (League, League Cup and European Cup). 1984 Ian Rush score 47 goals during the 1983–84 season and breaking the club record. 1985 Heysel Stadium disaster. 1989 Hillsborough disaster. 2005 First Champions League title. 2006 The American business man Tom Hicks becomes the new owner of the club. 2018 Philippe Coutinho is sold to Barcelona for £142 million, a new club transfer record. 2020 First time Premier League champions.  
  Records and statistics  
  External links  
  References: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liverpool_FC http://www.espnfc.com/story/841080/a-brief-history-of-liverpool http://www.royalliverbuildingvenue.co.uk/liver-bird/ Image sources: 1. Unknown source 2. Robert Cutts  
  Liverpool issue advice to supporters after 'worrying increase' in fake tickets  
  Liverpool issue a statement to supporters advising them of the safe ways to purchase tickets for Anfield fixtures after noticing a 'worrying increase' in fake tickets  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Liverpool have expressed their concern about a "worrying increase" in the amount of fake tickets involving Anfield fixtures.  
  The Reds are currently gearing up to return to Premier League action after the international break. Liverpool face Brighton at Anfield on Sunday, before hosting Sheffield United a few days later in the top flight.  
  Jurgen Klopp's team are battling to win the league title in his final season with the club. Liverpool are also in the quarter-final of the Europa League, where they will face Atalanta next month.  
  Liverpool have at least six more home games remaining at Anfield this season, with five coming in the Premier League. There is the potential for one more Anfield fixture on the calendar, if the Reds get past Atalanta in the Europa League.  
  On Wednesday morning, Liverpool issued a statement warning supporters about the risk of innocently purchasing "fake or non-existent" tickets for Anfield fixtures. As part of the statement, the club issued advice to fans on where are the safe places to buy tickets to see the Reds in action.  
  "Liverpool FC has seen a worrying increase in the number of innocent supporters scammed into buying fake or non-existent tickets for home games in recent weeks," the statement read.  
  "As a result, the club would like to reiterate the places where fans should purchase Anfield tickets from in order to guarantee they are genuine. All general admission tickets should be purchased from Liverpool FC only.  
  "The club’s official match break partners – and their sub-agents, which are listed on their websites where applicable – are the only other places to guarantee the purchase of official LFC hospitality tickets.  
  "LFC supplies these agents with genuine hospitality tickets, and these packages are sold as match breaks with travel and/or at least one night’s hotel accommodation.  
  "The club’s investigations and sanctions team has also seen increased issues with a number of closed ticketing groups on various social media platforms, including Facebook and Snapchat, even where the title of the group claims ‘No Scammers’."  
  Liverpool advised fans to report any instances of ticket scamming to Action Fraud.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Liverpool Legends 4-2 Ajax Legends: Sven-Goran Eriksson realises lifelong dream of managing at Anfield in charity match  
  Former England manager Sven-Goran Eriksson, who revealed in January that he was dying from cancer, realised a lifelong dream to manage Liverpool as a legends team beat Ajax Legends 4-2 in an Anfield charity game  
  Sunday 24 March 2024 07:08, UK  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Highlights as Sven-Goran Eriksson fulfilled his life-long dream as he managed Liverpool Legends to a 4-2 victory over Ajax Legends at Anfield  
  Sven-Goran Eriksson realised his lifelong dream to manage Liverpool at Anfield as he took charge of the club for a charity legends game against Ajax on an emotional day in Merseyside.  
  The former England manager, who is a boyhood Liverpool fan, revealed his terminal cancer diagnosis in January, saying he has "at best, a year to live".  
  Eriksson was invited by Liverpool to take charge of their legends side for this game alongside a coaching staff of Ian Rush, John Aldridge and John Barnes - and was given a standing ovation by the Anfield crowd as he came out of the tunnel.  
  As 'You'll Never Walk Alone' rang out before kick-off, the 76-year-old cut an emotional figure while standing on the pitch next to former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard, who Eriksson managed while in charge of England.  
  The charity match between Liverpool Legends and Ajax Legends was to raise money for the LFC Foundation and Forever Reds.  
  Fernando Torres - who started up front with Gerrard for Liverpool - rounded off a memorable afternoon by scoring the fourth goal in a 4-2 comeback win for the Liverpool Legends.  
  Derk Boerrigter and Kiki Musampa gave the Ajax Legends a comfortable lead at the break but Liverpool scored three times in front of the Kop End, thanks to goals from Gregory Vignal, Djibril Cisse and Nabil El Zhar and Torres.  
  Also See:  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Sven-Goran Eriksson described it as 'a beautiful day' after realising a lifelong dream of managing Liverpool  
  Speaking in his post-match press conference Eikksson described the event as "a beautiful day".  
  "A memory for life," he added to LFC TV after the game. "Everybody was the winner today. It was beautiful, absolutely incredible. Everything from You'll Never Walk Alone to the rest of the match.  
  "I think we were the better team even in the first half. You always worry that you lose, but it was a very good first half, an extremely good second half. But the big winners were all of us."  
  Meanwhile, Liverpool captain for the day Gerrard paid tribute to Eriksson - and even said the former England manager as "still got the magic" after inspiring a second half comeback.  
  "He changed everything at half-time, he knew we had no width in the first half and we were trying to fit through the middle," Gerrard said. "He made loads of changes at half-time and gave us more width.  
  "He's still got it, he's still got the magic. He made the difference.  
  "He was like Rafa at half-time, moving us about, changing the system, giving us more width and we got there in the end. The hairdryer treatment!  
  "Sven being here today was very special, as soon as I knew he was going to be the gaffer today, I couldn't wait to come and play with him one last time."  
  Pictures: Anfield salutes Eriksson  
  What happened in the match  
  Liverpool fell behind in the opening two minutes as Boerrigter tapped home - and the winger then set up the second before half-time by teeing up Musampa in the box, who fired past Jerzy Dudek.  
  The Reds were frustrated in the first half as Torres missed several chances, including seeing one shot cleared off the line. But Liverpool came back with a second half comeback.  
  Vignal drilled home from inside the box to pull one back, with the Frenchman running over to Eriksson to celebrate the goal with a hug, before Cisse then headed home Dirk Kuyt's cross to equalise.  
  A solo goal from El Zhar then gave Liverpool the lead but what the Anfield crowd really wanted was a Torres goal, in his first game back at Anfield in Liverpool colours since leaving the club in 2011.  
  That came just before full-time as Torres finished at the second attempt to seal the win.  
  But the day belonged to Eriksson, who led both sets of players in a round of applause around Anfield, with the entire 60,000-seater stadium on its feet to applaud the former England manager.  
  EXCLUSIVE: Unrest at Liverpool! Nunez and Szoboszlai fume over Klopp exit  
  Liverpool stars Darwin Nunez and Dominik Szoboszlai are furious with the manner in which Jurgen Klopp’s exit from the Anfield club has been handled by the board. The pair feel that they have been misled by the Reds, FootballTransfers has been informed.  
  Sources have indicated that, contrary to previous reports, senior Anfield players did have an inkling that the former Mainz and Borussia Dortmund head coach was considering leaving the club. This came from informal discussions held in Singapore during the club’s pre-season tour.  
  These did not, however, extend to newer signings like Nunez and Szoboszlai, who joined up on long contracts in 2022 and 2023 respectively. Both are said to have “hit the roof” at the announcement.  
  In addition to this pair, it is also believed that Ryan Gravenberch is unhappy with the turn of events.  
  While these players have been left unsettled by Klopp’s imminent departure and the manner it has been handled by the Liverpool board, it is not expected to have an impact on the long-term future of the players at the club.  
  No exits imminent  
  Nunez and Szoboszlai do not have plans to talk to their agents and review their position with the Reds, where there is still no clear succession plan for Klopp in place. Both remain content to stay with the club for now.  
  There is no doubt, however, that Klopp was a major pull for both to join Liverpool and their long-term future on Merseyside has become less certain.  
  Both Nunez and Szoboszlai have grown to become favourites of the Anfield crowd during their time at the club, with the duo playing a key role as Klopp seeks to sign off in spectacular fashion by winning a Premier League, Europa League and Carabao Cup treble.  
  Liverpool, Real Madrid, Bayern all want Alonso. Who'll get him?  
  It's accurate to say that Xabi Alonso is in a position that is unique across the entire history of organised professional football.  
  Big statement, but demonstrably true.  
  Never before has a coach who has still to complete his first full senior season been the No. 1 target for three of the biggest clubs in the world (with 26 European Cups/Champions Leagues between them) in three different countries. Those clubs are Bayern Munich, Liverpool and Real Madrid.  
  His other love, Real Sociedad, had him and let him leave -- they'll have to wait a long time now. Does that mean we should already feel huge sympathy for his current employers, Bayer Leverkusen, for whom he'll seal their first Bundesliga title if his team wins just 15 of the remaining 24 points available this season?  
  - Stream on ESPN+: LaLiga, Bundesliga, more (U.S.)  
  Well, hold your horses -- not necessarily. We'll come back to Bayer 04 in a minute. This is a fertile time for Spanish coaches. Again.  
  Two of Europe's "Big Five" leagues will definitely be won by LaLiga exports -- Ligue 1 by Paris Saint-Germain and Luis Enrique, plus, I'm promising you, Alonso and Bayer Leverkusen. But that number could easily be three ... or four, should the Premier League be won by either Arsenal or Manchester City ... and if Xavi's Barcelona stage what would admittedly be a minor miracle in LaLiga itself.  
  Of the 24 clubs left in UEFA competition (Champions League, Europa League, Conference League) seven are coached by Spanish managers -- more than any other nationality. All that notwithstanding, the 42-year-old Basque who played for Real Sociedad, Liverpool, Madrid and Bayern stands out.  
  There have been more precocious coaches than Alonso: Pep Guardiola won the treble aged just 38, but by the time Manchester City and Bayern Munich (five European Cups/Champions League between them at the time) were the only two slugging it out for his signature, not only had he taken a year's sabbatical, he'd been coaching at the senior level for four seasons and he was 42. Another of Alonso's mentors, Jose Mourinho, was 41 by the time he took charge of Chelsea, having won UEFA trophies with Porto, but he'd been assistant coach to Sir Bobby Robson and Louis Van Gaal, or head coach at three different Portuguese clubs, for well over a decade by then.  
  The speed of Mourinho's ascent isn't comparable, nor was being sought by Chelsea (wealthy, but zero Champions League titles at the time) comparable to this Spanish World Cup winner currently being the No. 1 pick for Bayern, Liverpool and Madrid. What's more, Mourinho was made to audition for the job (on Roman Abramovich's yacht) up against Didier Deschamps. Alonso is Número Uno everywhere he surveys.  
  Sir Alex Ferguson, who could easily be held up as the most successful and powerful football club manager ever, was nearly 45 by the time he joined Manchester United from Aberdeen, had been coaching clubs for well over 10 years and had turned down opportunities at Rangers, Spurs and Wolves.  
  Hardly Bayern, Liverpool or Madrid. Enough examples for contextual comparison.  
  Go through all the greats, as far back as you wish, and you will not find a manager who was still to finish his first full senior season but had become the "must-sign!" guy for three such mighty clubs across three wholly different football cultures. It's astonishing.  
  What's that? You'd like to know what his choice will be? OK, join the queue -- so would Bayern, Liverpool and Madrid.  
  Alonso is a strict, sometimes stern, but ultra-disciplined guy. There is no way on earth he was going to let speculation, negotiation or career-choice deliberation get in the way of his Leverkusen team lifting all three trophies that are still available to them (Bundesliga, German Cup, Europa League). That simply isn't how he's constructed.  
  Meaning that in recent months, since this situation was catalysed by Jurgen Klopp announcing his decision to leave Anfield in June and then Bayern and Thomas Tuchel revealing that they would consciously uncouple, Alonso scrupulously refused to engage in either media jostling on his story or firm negotiations with the suitor clubs. Any other such reports are nonsense.  
  However, the recent international break, while only a brief respite from 100% intense club duties, gave him and his long-term entourage time to nudge the decision-making process forward. A little clarity seems to have emerged.  
  Alonso, from before he signed up to rescue Leverkusen in October 2022, has been crystal clear in his own mind where it is he'd like to deploy his talents over the next 20 years or so -- he just didn't realise that all these opportunities would drop simultaneously.  
  For example, in summer 2022, he was approached by Marseille's Spanish president, Pablo Longoria, with the offer to take over France's sleeping giants. Alonso had just left Real Sociedad's B team and was free.  
  Longoria told So Foot: "Xabi turned down the Marseille job with the same elegance he had as when he was a midfielder striking a 40-metre pass. I should have been furious to be rejected but it was all so gentlemanly that I almost thanked him for the experience! He was quite clear on the four teams he wanted to coach and was perfectly prepared to wait for them."  
  Those teams were, and still are, Real Sociedad, Liverpool, Real Madrid and Bayern. The pecking order, right now, is: Madrid (meaning he'd stay at Leverkusen for at least a season) very narrowly ahead of Liverpool and ... Bayern drifting.  
  Bayern Munich have their noses pressed at the shop window. They know what they want, they hunger for it, the money is burning a hole in their pocket -- but they look increasingly likely to have to accept they're at the back of the queue to such a degree that they might well move onward to others on their list of candidates ... and do so soon.  
  The fact that Alonso is on the verge of achieving something unparalleled in Bayer Leverkusen's 120 years -- making them German champions -- means he and his employers have a symbiotic relationship. Alonso would not naturally want to enforce a brutal move to the champion-elect's nearest rival -- Bayern Munich. Not when he has three other options: staying, Liverpool or Madrid.  
  He owes president Fernando Carro, the club, his squad and the fans too much. Not his style.  
  Bayern's honorary president, Uli Hoeness, told Ran Sports last week: "There are hardly any coaches like Alonso, who've proved they can handle a big club, but who don't have a job or who are on sabbatical. It's not so easy to persuade someone under contract, who may well be having great success, that FC Bayern is the 'be-all-and-end-all!'"  
  Genuinely, how stark it is for someone who lives and breathes FC Bayern to have to admit that. Last time the Bavarians set their sights on a Spaniard they, admittedly, elbowed Manchester City out of the way and hugely frustrated Txiki Begiristain and Ferran Soriano in managing to hijack what they thought was a guaranteed move for Pep Guardiola to come directly to England. Can they replicate that against-the-odds action with Alonso? Outside bet.  
  It's partly explained because of how Alonso feels about his current employers -- who extended his contract (until summer 2026) only last August. When that news was revealed, Leverkusen's sports director, Simon Rolfes, said: "Us appointing Xabi is getting great applause right now but when we chose him there was skepticism. He was world-famous ... yet a coach without experience of leading an elite club. But I was convinced of his ability."  
  Leverkusen acted so firmly last August, long before the magnificence of their current season even began to take shape and suggest that Alonso needed rewarding, because they were positive that Real Madrid would sign and seal their former midfielder to take over as coach this summer. It was a wholly understandable precaution.  
  In August 2023, the Brazilian CBF was ruled by Ednaldo Rodrigues, who had made it quite clear that he wanted the brilliant veteran Italian Carlo Ancelotti to take over the national team as soon as possible, if not sooner. Ancelotti was out of contract at Madrid in June 2024 -- his move to Brazil looked a shoo-in.  
  Rolfes reacted with supreme anticipation and precision -- ensuring that Alonso was contracted for almost three more years with the implication that either they'd keep the vibrant young Spaniard or be paid damn good compensation if he left. They knew that even securing him in the mid-term didn't automatically ensure that Alonso would be irrevocably locked in.  
  Leverkusen's Spanish CEO Fernando Carro has already explained to Marca: "We didn't need to have a release clause in writing with Xabi. We have a great relationship and he knows we're a serious club.  
  "We won't insist on keeping anyone who doesn't want to be here. There's nothing on paper but a verbal agreement is still an agreement. If he requires to do something in the future then we'll talk. I only hope we don't have to because he's happy and he wants to stay."  
  Madrid are in pole position because, long before this was a three-way auction, they specifically built him into their succession plan. Immediately as Ancelotti's Brazilian dream looked as if it were crumbling, with Rodrigues being removed from his post (only briefly it proved) by the Brazilian government last December, Florentino Perez neatly stitched in his preferred segue by renewing Ancelotti until summer 2026.  
  Absolutely zero coincidence that this was in harmony with when Alonso would be guaranteed to be free from his Leverkusen deal. The result: a Madrid squad beautifully built, stadium renewed and ready to earn huge new revenue, steady-hand Ancelotti tied up for two more years and Cool-Hand Xabi waiting to take over.  
  Meaning that Liverpool have quite some work to do in order not to join Bayern Munich with their noses pressed to the window -- seeing the candy, wanting the candy, but not being allowed in.  
  Alonso's ties to the city, to the club, his awareness that Liverpool, too, have renewed and fortified their squad and the residual ache, about which he's spoken, that the Premier League was the only national title he didn't win in the three countries he graced, can all, feasibly, combine to draw him away from the Bundesliga and to ask Florentino Perez for a little extra time before coming home to Madrid.  
  And what has the prospect of Leverkusen playing Liverpool in Dublin for the Europa League title in what might be Klopp's last game in charge of the Reds done for the pending drama -- whether Alonso wants to take over or has other plans?  
  It has hyped that drama right up, is what it's done. As it stands, however, Liverpool are not yet in the box seat.  
  Leaving the prospect of Leverkusen, who've been so smart, so visionary, so brave and so successful in prising their way into Alonso's dream career trajectory, potentially reaping the benefits of at least one more season if moving to Madrid in due course, rather than Anfield, is what he ultimately chooses.  
  Meantime, get geared up for Leverkusen, who have only one domestic trophy in these 120 years of history, tilting very hard indeed at winning three of the damn things in the next 60 days. And then partying.  
  Liverpool’s next five Premier League games compared to Arsenal and Manchester City | OneFootball  
  Empire of the Kop  
  ·24 March 2024  
  Liverpool’s next five Premier League games compared to Arsenal and Manchester City  
  Add to your bookmarksShare this article  
  Liverpool will have been bitterly disappointed to be reduced to just the two remaining competitions after a 4-3 defeat in the FA Cup to Manchester United.  
  Still, with the nature of the prizes on offer, the Reds should feel massively motivated going into the remainder of the 2023/24 season.  
  OneFootball Videos  
  The Merseysiders’ next five league games, for instance, present a superb opportunity to lay down a marker at the business end of the campaign.  
  Liverpool’s next five league games  
  From March 31 – April 21, we’re set to face Brighton (H), Sheffield United (H), Manchester United (A), Crystal Palace (H), and Fulham (A).  
  Roberto De Zerbi’s Seagulls have proven tricky operators in recent years, though the one fixture that draws the eye is the trip to Old Trafford in April.  
  Roberto De Zerbi has been linked with the Liverpool job – (Photo by Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)  
  Perhaps it’s merely just the hurt talking but that’s the one game Liverpool must throw all their energy into, particularly after such a frustrating defeat in the FA Cup.  
  It’s an opportunity for revenge and to rack up points in a game our rivals will hope to see present a banana skin to our title charge.  
  Arsenal’s next five league games  
  The Gunners currently top the table but a lot can change in the space of a week.  
  First up? A trip to the Etihad to face Manchester City before Luton Town (H), Brighton (A), Aston Villa (H), and Wolves (A).  
  Mikel Arteta will be hoping to go one step further on last-season’s second-place finish – (Photo by Julian Finney/Getty Images)  
  A comparatively trickier set of fixtures, one might argue, with Aston Villa fighting to hold onto their top four spot, not to mention Luton Town being on the cusp of slipping back into the relegation zone.  
  The big one, of course, is the trip to Manchester at the end of March, which could see top spot swing back in our favour.  
  Manchester City’s next five league games  
  The incumbent league champions host Arsenal at the end of March before taking on Aston Villa (H), Crystal Palace (A), Luton Town (H), and Brighton (A).  
  The Sky Blues could hand control of the title race back to Liverpool should they defeat Mikel Arteta’s men at the Etihad on March 31.  
  Otherwise, it’s a relatively similar run to the North London-based outfit for difficulty in what could prove to be one of the closest-fought title races in Premier League history.  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  Photo by Robin Jones - AFC Bournemouth/AFC Bournemouth via Getty Images  
  Liverpool told they’re about to bring an ‘elite-level operator’ to the club this summer  
  It’s all change at Liverpool this summer as Jurgen Klopp calls time on his extraordinary spell at Anfield.  
  Klopp has been the figurehead of an extremely successful period for the Reds, in which they’ve won just about every major trophy available to them.  
  With the German departing in the summer, the club is going to feel very different. It’s been so long since Liverpool fans – and players – have known anything other than Jurgen.  
  But this is football and things move quickly. And with that in mind, the Reds have been told that they’ve just secured a perfect post-Klopp appointment.  
  Liverpool praised for summer business  
  The summer is still several months away in football terms. However, that hasn’t stopped Liverpool from getting some business done.  
  The Reds clearly have some major work to finalise over the coming weeks and to oversee all of that they’ve brought Michael Edwards back to the club. Edwards then in turn appointed Bournemouth’s Richard Hughes as sporting director, with the 44-year-old due to start at the end of the season.  
  Hughes looks a shrew addition to Liverpool. The former midfielder is reportedly held in very high regard by the wider football world and has been praised further by former Bournemouth head scout Des Taylor.  
  “Michael [Edwards] and Richard have spent many hours in each other’s company over the last 10 years,” Taylor, who is said to have worked ‘extensively’ with Hughes at Dean Court told BBC Sport.  
  MORE LIVERPOOL STORIES  
  “They know each other forensically, they understand each other, and most importantly they trust each other.  
  “Liverpool as a club and an entity have done very, very well to get that partnership. They are so compatible, they are both elite-level operators in all facets of recruitment and leadership. There is little doubt that their synergy will work well for Liverpool.”  
  What is Richard Hughes role at Liverpool  
  Although Edwards holds the more senior position within the Liverpool set-up, it will be Hughes who deals with the day-to-day running of the club.  
  That means that it will be the former Scotland international, not Edwards who takes the lead on securing Klopp’s successor.  
  Hughes is very much in Edwards’ former role. This means that issues to do with contract negotiations and any transfer dealings will fall under his remit.  
  In terms of Edwards himself, the celebrated analyst looks set to be the man who identifies and executes FSG’s proposed multi-club model. He will be there to support and potentially sign off on Hughes’ decisions for Liverpool, but the new man will clearly be given plenty of responsibility. We’re looking forward to seeing how it all works.  
  Xabi Alonso 'situation changes' while Liverpool owners FSG 'in talks' over buying second club  
  Latest Liverpool news as Xabi Alonso's future remains uncertain amid Liverpool links. FSG is reportedly closing in on a deal to buy a French top-tier side.  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Liverpool returns to Premier League action this weekend but the search continues for the club's next manager. The appointment of Richard Hughes as sporting director should move things along but there is yet to be a breakthrough, with Xabi Alonso seemingly remaining the top target. There could also be a significant development within FSG, led by ex-Liverpool chief Michael Edwards. Here's your round-up of the latest Liverpool news.  
  Alonso 'situation changes' amid Liverpool interest  
  Xabi Alonso remains the frontrunner to take over as Liverpool's next manager with Jürgen Klopp entering the final two months of his tenure. Alonso has taken Bayer Leverkusen to the top of Bundesliga, with his side unbeaten in all competitions this season.  
  Bayern Munich is also keen on appointing the Spaniard with Liverpool said to be considering alternatives, if it cannot persuade Alonso to return to Anfield. Staying at Leverkusen hasn't been ruled out and journalist Fabrizio Romano claims results on the pitch have changed the 44-year-old's thinking.  
  He told Caught Offside that Alonso was 'considering his options' at the end of last year, well before Klopp announced his intentions to leave Liverpool. But with his Leverkusen side continuing its unbeaten run, Alonso's situation is said to have 'completely changed'.  
  It is claimed that he does not want any distractions from now until the end of the season. Leverkusen bosses share that view, with his future unlikely to be resolved until the summer.  
  FSG and Michael Edwards target French club?  
  Liverpool owners FSG have reportedly held talks over a potential deal to buy Ligue 1 side Toulouse. Former Reds sporting director Michael Edwards returned to FSG earlier this month as CEO of football.  
  Liverpool will now fall under his remit and he played a key role in the appointment of Richard Hughes as sporting director. Having initially turned FSG down, Edwards revealed plans to 'acquire and oversee' an additional club was a big factor in taking the role.  
  In an FSG statement, he added: "It was vital that I returned with renewed vigor and energy, having fresh challenges and opportunities. I believe that to remain competitive, investment and expansion of the current football portfolio is necessary."  
  According to Football Insider, a deal to buy out Toulouse is being lined up as FSG eyes a multi-club network. Liverpool met the French side in the Europa League earlier this season, winning 5-1 at Anfield before slipping to a 3-2 defeat in the reverse fixture.  
  The two clubs are already linked, with Toulouse's majority owners RedBird Capital holding an 11 per cent stake in FSG, while former Reds chief Damien Comolli is president of the Ligue 1 side. Toulouse currently sits 11th in the table but is just six points clear of the relegation places.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Michael Edwards makes Liverpool return to oversee post-Klopp era  
  He is expected to appoint Richard Hughes as sporting director  
  Edwards reveals FSG wants to add club to its portfolio  
  Liverpool’s former sporting director Michael Edwards has returned to oversee the club’s football operations post-Jürgen Klopp.  
  Edwards met senior executives of Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, in Boston recently to discuss the details of his new role and has been confirmed as chief executive officer of football for FSG, which intends to add another club to its portfolio.  
  The 44-year-old rejected an approach from FSG in January to return as sporting director but has accepted this more senior ­position. He will effectively assume the responsibilities held by FSG’s ­president, Mike Gordon, who is reducing his involvement.  
  Edwards’s immediate task will be to appoint a new sporting director – Bournemouth’s technical director, Richard Hughes, is expected to fill that vacancy – and together they will recruit Klopp’s successor as Liverpool manager. Xabi Alonso, the former Liverpool midfielder who has guided Bayer Leverkusen to the top of the Bundesliga, is the frontrunner.  
  Edwards said he was “humbled by the desire and persistence” FSG showed in wanting to work with him again. “It was vital for me that, if I did return, it had to be with renewed ­vigour and energy,” he said. “In practice, this means having fresh challenges and opportunities.  
  “As such, one of the biggest factors in my decision is the commitment to acquire and oversee an additional club, growing this area of their organi­sation. I believe that to remain competitive, investment and expansion of the current football portfolio is necessary.”  
  FSG has made a concerted effort to rehire Edwards, who left Liverpool after 10 highly successful years in 2022 and has rejected ­numerous approaches from other clubs, ­including Manchester United and Chelsea. He has been working as a consultant at the sports advisory business Ludonautics, a company founded by Liverpool’s former director of research Ian Graham, but will resign on 1 June.  
  “Michael is one of the most formidable executive talents in world football and John [Henry], Tom [Werner] and I are absolutely thrilled to have secured his services for our business,” Gordon said.  
  Bournemouth recently announced that Hughes would leave at the end of this season after a decade in their recruitment team. He has been technical director for the past eight years and led the appointment of Andoni Iraola – who shares an agent with Alonso – as the head coach last summer. The former midfielder got to know Edwards when he played for Portsmouth, where the latter worked as a performance analyst, and confirmation that he will take the job is expected soon.  
  FSG has been searching for a permanent sporting director since Julian Ward announced he would be leaving in 2023. Jörg Schmadtke was a short-term appointment to help Klopp with Liverpool’s midfield rebuild last summer and left at the end of the January transfer window.  
  Liverpool are about to unleash their most devastating player on the Premier League title race  
  Mohamed Salah has been given a rare rest during the international break and Liverpool could now be about to take advantage up against Man City and Arsenal  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  It was no consolation on a dismal day for Liverpool. But even in defeat, Mohamed Salah seemingly cannot stop breaking new ground.  
  His goal in the 4-3 FA Cup quarter-final reverse at Manchester United made the Reds forward the first player in history to score in five successive away games against the Old Trafford side.  
  Salah's predatory strike, pouncing after Darwin Nunez's effort had been saved by United goalkeeper Andre Onana, was a reminder of the quality that has meant he has now scored 21 goals and contributed 13 assists in 32 games for Liverpool this season.  
  And given the player's fractured 2024 to date, a victory of sorts for the Reds the previous week could have a major bearing on the remainder of Salah's season and the Premier League title race.  
  Mindful of a written request from Liverpool, Egypt took the decision to leave Salah out of their squad for the friendly tournament that saw New Zealand beaten last Friday only for the Pharaohs to go down 4-2 to Croatia in the final on Tuesday. It meant a rare international break off for the 31-year-old and a chance to continue working on his fitness having missed much of the calendar year through injury.  
  Of course, it was when on national team duty at the Africa Cup of Nations back in January that Salah sustained the hamstring problem that has been the root cause of his issues. All told, he sat out 12 Liverpool games, a sequence punctured only by a brief comeback at Brentford in which, inevitably, Salah provided a goal and an assist in a 46-minute outing.  
  In terms of Liverpool's Premier League title challenge, the timing could have been worse. Half of those 12 games were cup matches - five of which were won, while the other was a draw at Fulham that ensured a place in the League Cup final - while the Reds took 15 points from 18 in the top flight, the only blemish the 3-1 defeat at fellow title contenders Arsenal in early February.  
  Having been earlier rested for League Cup and Europa League games against Leicester City and Union Saint-Gilloise respectively, Salah has already missed more games this season than in any other campaign as a Liverpool player. Indeed, until he departed for the AFCON in early January, he'd only been unavailable for seven of 248 Premier League matches.  
  The pressure and expectation on Salah, then, has been relentless. And while he has rarely shown signs of being affected, everyone has a breaking point. That was seen in 2022 when, with Liverpool chasing a quadruple, Salah suffered a double blow of losing the AFCON final in the February on penalties to Senegal, and then missing out on World Cup qualification against the same opponents in an identical manner the following month. The form of Salah, who played every minute of the tournament and the two-legged play-off, after the tournament was nowhere near as devastating as before he had departed.  
  Salah, then, is almost certain to prove a rested development for Liverpool during the closing weeks of the campaign, as has been demonstrated in flashes since he returned to action three weeks ago. Any post-AFCON hangover has been rendered redundant by his subsequent spell on the sidelines and, with 10 games to go, there is sufficient time for the Egyptian to leave his stamp on a title race in which only a point covers the top three of Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester City.  
  And one former Reds striker is convinced Salah will be key to ensuring Jurgen Klopp a glorious farewell as Liverpool manager. “We were team-mates at Chelsea and I’m really, really happy for him,” said Fernando Torres to liverpoolfc.com. “I’m in touch with him many times. I remember when he came to England and he was very young and didn’t have the minutes he deserved. He had to move to Italy and prove himself. You can see the results of what he did by himself. For me, top player and one of the best players in the last 10 years. I always say this, my favourite player.  
  “You can see what Liverpool managed to win and you know the club is fighting for everything and I’m sure he is one of the main reasons. I’m really proud of him because I know how difficult it was for him to come to England and time proved he was a special player and just needed a special club like Liverpool to trust him. He’s going to be one of the best players in Liverpool history, I’m sure. He is already but still he has many things to do.”  
  That starts at home to Brighton on Sunday afternoon. Liverpool deserve credit for how they managed without Salah - but the Egyptian is now perfectly poised to prove just why he remains their most devastating player.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  News'One of the best in Liverpool history' – Fernando Torres' pride in Mo Salah  
  Fernando Torres has revealed his pride at seeing Mohamed Salah establish himself as ‘one of the best players of the last 10 years’ and among the greatest ever at Liverpool.  
  Torres and Salah were once teammates at Chelsea as the latter made his first steps in English football back in 2014, and have remained in touch since.  
  Like most people, Torres has been blown away by the levels Salah has reached following his move to Anfield in 2017.  
  With 207 goals in 337 appearances, the Egyptian currently sits fifth on the Reds’ all-time top scorers list and has a games-to-goals ratio that surpasses many of the club’s great forwards – Torres included.  
  “We were teammates at Chelsea and I’m really, really happy for him,” Torres told Liverpoolfc.com. “I’m in touch with him many times and I’m really happy that he breaks all my records!  
  “I remember when he came to England and he was very young and didn’t have the minutes he deserved. He had to move to Italy and prove himself and find a special club for a special player.  
  “You can see the results of what he did by himself. For me, [he is a] top player and one of the best players in the last 10 years. I always say this, [he is] my favourite player [and] I put him among the best players in the world in the last 10 years.  
  “You can see what Liverpool managed to win and you know the club is fighting for everything and I’m sure he is one of the main reasons. I’m really proud of him because I know how difficult it was for him to come to England and time proved he was a special player and just needed a special club like Liverpool to trust him, and he showed what he can do.  
  “I was really happy when he signed his new contract to keep playing for Liverpool [in 2022]. He’s going to be one of the best players in Liverpool history, I’m sure. He is already but still he has many things to do.”  
  Torres has also played alongside another member of Jürgen Klopp’s current Reds squad, briefly linking up with a young Diogo Jota during his second spell at Atletico Madrid in 2016.  
  “I remember when Diogo came,” Torres said. “He was really young and came from Pacos de Ferreira as one of these young talents who joined the pre-season in Atletico’s first team and everybody is expecting big things from them.  
  “At the end of the pre-season he left [for FC Porto] but you could see something special in this young lad. I’m really happy for him, how he’s doing now in his time in England.  
  “Moving to Liverpool was a big step for him. Now you can see the kind of player he is. I remember that small period of time we played together and I’m so proud of what he did after that because it’s not easy to come to Atletico and leave on loan, and you have to prove yourself in different places.”  
  Torres made an emotional return to Anfield last weekend, scoring in front of the Kop as Liverpool FC Legends defeated Ajax Legends 4-2 in the eighth annual charity game, raising money for LFC Foundation.  
  You have to accept cookies in order to view this content on our site.  
  The 40-year-old, who netted 81 goals in 142 appearances for the Reds between 2007 and 2011, is currently embarking on a new career in coaching.  
  Torres manages Atletico’s U19 team and hopes one day to emulate some of his former coaches, such as Rafael Benitez and Diego Simeone.  
  He also, of course, has a lot of respect for the work of Klopp.  
  “I like more the English style – the transition game and the press and to play quick and sharp,” he said. “That’s why I’m a big fan of Jürgen since he was in Dortmund.  
  “I was really happy when I saw him signing for Liverpool because you could see from Klopp [that] there is a connection with the supporters – he did it in Mainz in Germany, he did it in Dortmund and Liverpool is even more special. The connection from the players, the coaches and the supporters is amazing. You can see after nine seasons what he did and I think he’s special.  
  “I met him a few times when they came to Madrid and I also follow Pep Lijnders. I read his book and I can see many things they do daily and it’s a big inspiration. Hopefully I have the chance to meet them and to talk with them and see what they are doing.  
  “When you see a Jürgen Klopp team, you know the way they are going to perform. There is one style – this heavy-metal football – and I love that. The difficult thing is: how do you train that? Hopefully I can find out one day.”  
  Torres says he has also been delighted to see the progress of so many young players at Liverpool this season – some of whom he came across earlier in their journey.  
  “I remember playing against Liverpool in the [UEFA] Youth League three years ago,” he added. “In that squad I played against [Jarell] Quansah, [Bobby] Clark, [Conor] Bradley, many of the players that you can see now in the first team.  
  “It’s really nice to see the players when they were young and now they are in the first team and doing the job they are doing. It’s really nice for the coaches to be part of that.”  
  He continued: “I was one of those players that said I will never be a coach! But look at me now, I’m trying!  
  “I’m enjoying a lot, learning a lot in the Atletico Madrid academy. It’s my third season in the U19s and I feel that I can help young players because I was there once and I’m trying to help them.  
  “You can see now that we have Pablo Barrios in the first team of Atletico – he was with us two years ago and I’m really proud of him. You can feel that you are part of the development of the players. This is really nice.  
  “I’m trying to find my own way but always looking at the best. I’m lucky enough to have fantastic managers in my career – Rafael Benitez, Luis Aragones in Spain, [Jose] Mourinho, [Carlo] Ancelotti, Simeone. I learn a lot from each of them and now I try to do things my own way.”  
  Roberto De Zerbi: Brighton boss is playing beautiful and brilliant football - do Liverpool dare to go there?  
  Roberto De Zerbi has a 'unique' style, but could the Brighton boss' strength be a weakness for football's risk-averse super clubs? Watch Liverpool vs Brighton live on Sky Sports on Super Sunday  
  By Adam Bate & Lewis Jones  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 21:27, UK  
  The style with which Roberto De Zerbi has established Brighton in the top half of the Premier League table, this season and last, demands that the 44-year-old coach be considered for the biggest jobs. This weekend, live on Super Sunday, he takes the stage for what could be his Anfield audition.  
  Pep Guardiola has called De Zerbi "one of the most influential managers in the last 20 years" because of his brand of football. The three-time Champions League-winning coach said: "There is no team playing the way they play. It is unique."  
  With De Zerbi, there is an unusual trajectory in his career path though. Big clubs haven't come knocking. Yet.  
  When Sam Allardyce and Sean Dyche took unfashionable teams into the upper reaches of the Premier League, the concern was that their approach would not be ambitious enough for the very best.  
  The good news for Brighton is that those are the whispers following reports that he is under consideration for the soon-to-be vacant role at Liverpool when Jurgen Klopp departs. Xabi Alonso has less coaching experience but it is De Zerbi whose fascinating football is seen as a risk.  
  In full flow, his teams find angles that others do not, triangles all over the pitch, controlling the rhythm in possession and pressing man-to-man out of it. At its very best, watching his Brighton side can feel like watching the future of the sport, evolution in action. Brighton put down the feather dusters used under Graham Potter and replaced them with battering rams under De Zerbi.  
  Also See:  
  From January 2023 to the end of last season, Brighton led the way for expected goals (51.3) in the Premier League, bettering Manchester City's tally of 46.18 for the same period. No team had more shots (605) or shots on target (228) than the scintillating Seagulls. It took them to Europe for the first time.  
  De Zerbi's courageous and exciting attacking style does lend itself to his defence being exposed but even if including their expected goals against record, their overall expected goals difference (expected goals - expected goals against) of 21.6 ranked them second only to Pep Guardiola's team during that period last season. Brighton's process was frighteningly impressive.  
  De Zerbi speaking on his future in February...  
  "When I listen that the big teams are interested in me, it is an honour and makes me proud My focus is the work day by day. About the future, I'm going to speak with the owner and the club because I want to compete in the best way I can. I want to understand their plan and then it is not a problem to work in a big, big team. I would like, in my career, to compete to win the Premier League, Serie A, Bundesliga, LaLiga, Champions League."  
  Perhaps there are parallels here with Marcelo Bielsa, the celebrated Argentine coach who has inspired so many but been overlooked for Europe's biggest jobs. He too is regarded as a maverick who changed the way coaches think with his interpretation of the game.  
  De Zerbi's own vertical approach focuses more on possession than pressing but it is similarly eye-catching when it works and alarming when it does not. Naturally, surrendering the ball in your own defensive third of the pitch is more likely to result in conceding.  
  The dark side of De Zerbi's football has been more of the narrative this campaign, where Brighton have struggled with their added workload of European football. Tired minds are leading to more mistakes.  
  Brighton have made eight errors leading to goals this season, the joint-most by any team in the Premier League along with bottom club Sheffield United. No team have faced more shots from individual errors either (18). That commitment to playing out from the back comes at a price.  
  Datawrapper This content is provided by Datawrapper, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Datawrapper cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Datawrapper cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Datawrapper cookies for this session only.  
  De Zerbi's admirers would argue, with some justification, that the risky football it is worth it.  
  When Brighton play through the opposition, it is both beautiful and brilliantly effective. However, the facts are this: Brighton are having a mediocre season. De Zerbi's stock has fallen.  
  Out of all cup competitions and work still to do to nab a European qualification spot in the Premier League, De Zerbi's intense style and himself admitting the club weren't ready for European football has led to Brighton's squad being decimated by injuries at various points of the season.  
  Brighton will be without Kaoru Mitoma and Solly March at Anfield on Sunday, while Joao Pedro - pictured at training on Wednesday to boost hopes of a return - has been out with a hamstring injury. No club would be expected to thrive shorn of a starting front three.  
  There will always be doubts whether a coach can adapt to the demands of a bigger job. Klopp and Xavi Hernandez are walking away from Liverpool and Barcelona respectively in the summer, citing their energy levels. The pressures are vast.  
  De Zerbi has an aura though - one you associate with top managers. He plays off emotions on the touchline. And he treats his players like family. When he talks, you can see that determination. He makes you want to follow.  
  As Sky Sports' Melissa Reddy writes in her in-depth column about who could replace Klopp, "De Zerbi's ability to innovate and communicate unique concepts to his players, who absorb it so quickly and effectively, is a core weapon."  
  The spotlight at Liverpool tests character, the profile of player challenges man-management. These are factors worthy of consideration. The odd thing about the De Zerbi conundrum for football's risk-averse super clubs is that they know the football that he plays is beautiful.  
  They just have not yet seen anyone try it - and win.  
  De Zerbi has a chance to impress the decision makers on Sunday.  
  March 31: Brighton (H), Premier League, live on Sky Sports, kick-off 2pm  
  April 4: Sheffield United (H), Premier League, kick-off 7:30pm  
  April 7: Manchester United (A), Premier League, live on Sky Sports, kick-off 3:30pm  
  April 11: Atalanta (H), Europa League, kick-off 8pm  
  April 14: Crystal Palace (H), Premier League, live on Sky Sports, kick-off 2pm  
  April 18: Atalanta (A), Europa League, kick-off 8pm  
  ‘I cried, it was beautiful’: Sven-Göran Eriksson fulfils his Liverpool dream  
  Childhood fan, who is dying of pancreatic cancer, managed the home side to victory over Ajax at Anfield in a legends match  
  Anfield was packed, the Liverpool squad boasted 985 caps and seven Champions League winners. The match was not the most competitive occasion the stadium will host this season but it was one of the most memorable on an emotional and perfect day for Sven-Göran Eriksson.  
  The Swede watched on as Liverpool came back from two goals down to win a cerebral thriller 4-2. Eriksson listened to the Kop serenade the boyhood fan with You’ll Never Walk Alone, making an old man very happy. He might have wanted a crack at the Premier League with Liverpool but 90 minutes on a cold March day was more than enough for the former England manager who has less than a year to live after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.  
  There was a standing ovation and cheering for Eriksson when he walked out ahead of the two teams before being greeted by captain, Steven Gerrard. As well as living out his own dream, the Swede was doing it on behalf of the fans inside the stadium. Eriksson took centre stage in the group photo of the two squads as Liverpool’s anthem was belted out around Anfield. Tears were in many an eye, mixed with goosebumps for Eriksson.  
  “That will be a huge memory in life – absolutely beautiful,” Eriksson said. “I cried, it was beautiful. To sit on the bench for Liverpool was the dream all my life and now it has happened. It was a beautiful day in every sense.”  
  It is not the first time Eriksson has taken charge of the home team at Anfield, leading England to victory over Finland in 2001, defeating Paraguay a year later in a friendly and Uruguay in 2006. He finishes with a perfect record in the home dugout.  
  It was an eclectic squad available to Eriksson et al from Agger to El-Zhar. Eriksson was part of a managerial team consisting of John Barnes, John Aldridge and Ian Rush, whose own dugout careers cannot compare with his, even though their peer would have loved to have scored a goal at Anfield like his colleagues. There was a message of support from Gerrard and international colleagues in the week, epitomised by an emotional Owen Hargreaves crying as he explained what Eriksson meant to him. It was not the final tears of the week.  
  The game offered a chance for a different set of fans to attend because ticket prices were cheaper, making a visit to Anfield more palatable. Those on the pitch might have lost a yard or two, or even all of their pace but the sense of fun and enjoyment overrides the physical limitations of a veterans match. The technique available for show, even if legs could not match speed of thought.  
  The match was a glorious pantomime of boos when decisions went against Liverpool, groans when their shots were saved and Eriksson jumped out of his seat whenever his side went close to scoring. Derk Boerrigter and Kiki Musampa gave Ajax a two-goal first-half lead. Eriksson’s canny (planned) subs made the difference as Grégory Vignal, Djibril Cissé and Nabil El-Zhar produced a fitting turnaround to keep Eriksson enthralled before Fernando Torres celebrated like he’d scored the winner in a Champions League semi-final as he lived out his dream.  
  There was a lap of honour at the end, a final chance for everyone to pay their tributes. Eriksson is 76 and despite a successful 40-year managerial career that has earned him titles in Italy and Portugal, managing England and in European club finals, he looked like an excited boy in the buildup to this match and was smiling throughout, except when emotions took their toll, on a day that reminded everyone that football can be a force for good.  
  Cancer is horrific and has given Eriksson a death sentence but he is making the most of what time he has left and offers a positive message to us all: do what you love, while you can.  
  “Thank you to Liverpool for giving me this opportunity,” Eriksson said. Thank you, Sven.  
  The History of Liverpool Football Club  
  Liverpool’s rivals Everton were formed in 1878 by John Houlding, a local businessman and future mayor of Liverpool.  
  They began playing at Anfield Road, a field rented from a brewer named John Orrell. As Everton became more established Houlding began to build football stands at Anfield Road. However, after a dispute in 1892 the club split into two groups. One group decided to move over to Goodison Park, while Houlding and a few others remained at Anfield Road, and adopted the name Liverpool Football Club. His friend John McKenna was appointed manager, and he went to Scotland to recruit players. After their first year McKenna decided it was time to apply for entrance into the Football League.  
  Despite winning promotion to the first division in their first year in the league, they continued in the shadow of neighbours Everton, with many local people refusing to watch a team of Scotsmen. They struggled in their first season, and were relegated to division two. McKenna swore that the club would be back in the top flight within twelve months, and their drive and determination won them the second division title, and promotion to division one. This time they finished a credible fifth, higher than rivals Everton.  
  They won their first championship in 1900/01, but were again relegated two years later. After another year in the second division they bounced back up and immediately won their second championship in 1904/05. As a reward the directors built the legendary Spion Kop for the fans. Named after a hill in Natal where a Merseyside regiment suffered heavy losses in the Boer War. Three hundred died in a vain attempt to lift the siege of Ladysmith, many of them Liverpool lads. “Spion Kop” means “vantage point” in Afrikaans. In 1928 the stand was extended and roofed, providing cover for 30,000 fans.  
  Liverpool won two more championship titles after World War I, but hit poor form following World War II, despite being runner up to Arsenal in the FA Cup final of 1950. They came last in division one in 1953/54, and were relegated. After several bad years Bill Shankly came to the rescue. He was appointed manager in 1959, and over the next fourteen years turned Liverpool into the greatest club in English football. In his first twelve months he sold twenty four players. By 1963/64 they won their sixth championship, and the following year added the FA Cup to their list of titles, beating Leeds in the final. They continued their run of success with another league title in 1965/66.  
  It was another seven years before they won another cup, this time the UEFA Cup in 1972/73, followed by the FA Cup again in 1973/74. Shankly then surprisingly called it a day, handing over the managerial role to his right-hand man Bob Paisley. It wasn’t long before he won silverware, taking the league championship and UEFA cup in his second season, 1975/76. Next year they just missed out on the treble, winning the League and beating Borussia Moenchengladbach in the European Cup, but losing 2-1 to Manchester United in the FA Cup final. They became the first British club to retain the European Cup, beating FC Bruge 1-0 in the final of 1977/78. Two successive League titles followed in 1978/79 and 1979/80. 1981 was another great season for the club, winning the first of four consecutive League Cup titles and beating Real Madrid to win the European Cup for a third time. Two more successive League titles followed in 1981/82 and 1982/83, before Paisley resigned. During his nine years in charge he won the Manager of the Year award six times.  
  Joe Fagan took over as manager and in his first season they won their third consecutive League title, the League Cup and the European Cup, beating AC Roma on Italian soil. The following year disaster struck. During the European Cup final against Juventus at the Heysel stadium, rioting broke out. A wall collapsed killing 38 Juventus fans. The game was won by Juventus, but more importantly English clubs were given an indefinite ban from European football.  
  Kenny Dalglish became player-manager in 1986, winning the League and FA Cup in his first season in charge. They won the League again in 1987/88, but just missed out on a second double when beaten by Wimbledon in the FA Cup final. 1988/89 was the worst season in the history of Liverpool Football Club. During the FA Cup semi-final against Nottingham Forest at Hillsborough 96 Liverpool fans were killed as the Lepping Lane stand became overcrowded. They went on to win the semi-final, and met Everton in an emotional final at Wembley. Both sets of fans were as one, singing ‘You’ll Never Walk Alone’ and observing a one minute silence before the start of the game. Liverpool won the game 3-2, with substitute Ian Rush scoring two late goals. They should have won the League title in the same year, with challengers Arsenal needing to win by two clear goals at Anfield. With Arsenal winning 1-0, Michael Thomas scored in injury time to steal the title, and ruin Liverpool’s chances of another double. Dalglish resigned in 1991, blaming stress from the Hillsborough disaster for his shock exit.  
  Ronnie Moran became caretaker manager, before Graeme Souness took over in April 1991. He bough a host of new players, but his strict managerial style was unpopular and failed to recreate the success of previous years. Much of the problems surrounding the club today stem from the Souness era.  
  Roy Evans took over and immediately won the League Cup in his first full season in charge in 1995. Despite building an exciting team of young players, many from the youth team he failed to win major trophies. Fans and directors demanded success and in 1998 brought in Frenchman Gerard Houllier in a joint managerial role with Evans. The shared job proved unsuccessful, and Evans backed down after only three months of the new season, ending a 35 year association with the club.  
  Houllier went on to develop the squad by bringing in relatively unknown players and was not undeterred by criticism from the media as the Liverpool style became more defensive. He was rewarded with five trophies in 2001 as Liverpool remained unbeaten in all cup competitions that season and qualified for the Champions League.  
  The following season saw Liverpool make a serious challenge for the Premiership, while also putting in a good debut performance in the Champinos League, reaching the quarter-finals only to be beaten by Bayer Leverkusen, who went on to the final.  
  Illness to Gerard Houllier left Phil Thompson in charge for much of the season, but his Boot Room background gave him the ability to keep the club ticking over in the Frenchamn’s absence. Liverpool went on to finish runners-up to Arsenal in the Premiership and once again qualified for the Champions League, although this turned out to be the high point of Houllier’s period in charge.  
  After narrowly qualifying for the Champions League by finishing fourth, way behind Arsenal, Chelsea and Manchester United, in the 2003/04 season the board decided it was time for a change. Rafael Benitez was the man earmarked for job and Houllier agreed to move on.  
  Benitez had turned Valencia into a force in Spanish football and, more importantly, did it on a shoestring. He won a league and UEFA Cup double in 2003/04 and in his first season in charge at Valencia he led the club to their first La Liga title for 31 years.  
  He didn’t waste much time bringing in his own backroom staff and relieving Phil Thompson, Sammy Lee and Joe Corrigan of their duties. Suddenly Liverpool started playing attacking, pass-and-move football again, pleasing both the supporters and the critics and showing promise for the future, and it wasn’t long before they were winning silverware – the European Cup after coming from 3-0 behind to beat AC Milan on penalties in the most exciting final in the history of the Champions League.  
  Investment by American businessmen George Gillett and Tom Hicks put pressure on Benitez to succeed in the Premiership, but rifts occurred when the manager was refused money to strengthen his squad.  
  Benitez parted company with Liverpool in the summer of 2010 and was replaced by Roy Hodgson, who struggled to win the hearts of the fans at a time when the club were trying to sever their ties with their American owners.  
  Eventually, thanks to the efforts of chairman Martin Broughton, a new buyer was found for the club and despite efforts in the courts to prevent it, Hicks and Gillett were ousted in October 2010 and the club welcomed a new owner John Henry, whose NESV company had already achieved success turning around the Boston Red Sox in America.  
  Hodgson’s future was short-lived and after a terrible start to the 2010/11 season he finally agreed to stand down in January 2011 to be replaced, albeit temporarily, by Kenny Dalglish. Liverpool fans had something to sing about at last.  
  Dalglish soon instilled belief and confidence in the squad, got rid of the deadwood, including the controversial departure of Fernando Torres to Chelsea, and brought in Luis Suarez and Andy Carroll to lead the new attack. The club was reborn and started winning games again. The King was back.  
  Sadly, despite winning the League Cup the following season, and losing out to Chelsea in the final of the FA Cup, Liverpool could only finish eighth in the Premier League and Dalglish was promptly sacked at the end of the seaon, being replaced by Swansea boss Brendan Rodgers two weeks later.  
  The new boss’ tiki-taka style was difficult for the Reds to get used to, but there were glimmers of hope, with a Premier League second-place finish in 2013/14. However, Rodgers failed to improve on that and parted company with the club, and was replaced with highly-rated former Borussia Dortmund manager Jurgen Klopp.  
  Klopp settled in well and was popular with players, fans and press alike. His no-nonsense style and likeable demeanour earned him a lot of respect and his tactics paid dividends.  
  After narrowly missing out to Real Madrid a year earlier, Klopp led Liverpool to their sixth European Cup in 2019, beating Tottenham in the Champions League final in Madrid. This was followed up with a dominant Premier League season which they won comfortably after a long 30-year wait. Liverpool Football Club were back on their perch. For the next few seasons the Reds challenged for the Premier League title, being narrowly pipped at the post by cash-rich Man City, but it’s only a matter of time until we win it again.  
  The Rich History of Liverpool Football Club  
  Established in 1892, the Liverpool Football Club, with a rich history, has long embodied success and prestige. Widely recognized as the most successful British club on the international stage, it holds numerous European trophies.  
  The team has a global fanbase, with over 200 supporter clubs in at least 50 countries. Yet, the shadow of two of the worst stadium disasters of all time, Heysel and Hillsborough, will forever plague Liverpool’s rich history.  
  History  
  After Everton moved to Goodison Park in 1892, John Houlding, the club’s president at the time, found himself with ownership of Anfield stadium but no team to play there. In response, he formed Liverpool FC as a solution to this issue.  
  The team joined the Football League in 1893 and quickly earned promotion to the first division after one season in the second division. Liverpool went on to become a successful club, winning League titles in 1901, 1906, 1922, and 1923.  
  The Bill Shankly Era  
  Liverpool FC, despite being highly popular during the post-WWII period, struggled with consistency. After winning their fourth League title in 1947, the club experienced a period of mediocrity that led to their relegation to the Second Division in 1954. However, the hiring of Bill Shankly as manager marked a turning point for the club.  
  Shankly made the bold decision to release the entire first team squad and transformed the club’s storage room into the famous “Boot Room”, where coaches would have secret meetings for the next thirty years. Shankly’s unconventional methods paid off, as Liverpool returned to the First Division in 1962 and won the League title two years later.  
  Under Shankly’s leadership, the club also secured two more League titles (1966, 1973), two FA Cups (1965, 1974), and their first European trophy – the 1973 UEFA Cup. Shankly eventually resigned in 1974, leaving the club in the capable hands of his assistant, Bob Paisley.  
  Adding More Trophies to the Collection  
  The arrival of new personnel did not have a significant impact on Liverpool’s continued success. During Bob Paisley’s nine-year tenure, the team won six League titles and three League Cups, as well as one UEFA Cup and three European Cups between 1976 and 1981. Joe Fagan, Paisley’s successor, also maintained the team’s winning tradition by achieving a Treble in his first season as manager after Paisley’s retirement in 1983.  
  The Heysel and Hillsborough Tragedies  
  In 1985, Liverpool played Juventus in the European Cup final, which later became known as the Heysel disaster due to unruly fans causing a wall to collapse and resulting in the deaths of 39 fans. As a result, European competitions imposed a five-year ban on English clubs.  
  Liverpool then focused on domestic competitions, winning two League titles in 1986 and 1988 and an FA Cup in 1985. Tragedy struck again in 1989 when 94 fans died in a crush during an FA Cup semi-final.  
  Despite these challenges, Liverpool managed to win their ninth League title in 1990, but their success declined in the following years with only a few Cup trophies and average league finishes. However, they made a remarkable comeback in 2005 by winning the Champions League final after coming back from a 3-0 deficit to beat Milan on penalties.  
  This victory marked a high point for the club, as they struggled to maintain their success in the following decade with only two Cup trophies and a second-place league finish.  
  A Return to the Top  
  Liverpool came close to winning the Premier League as runners-up in 2002, 2014, and 2019. However, in 2020, everything fell into place as Liverpool, led by German coach Jürgen Klopp, pulled away from the competition. The league was finally decided after being interrupted for a period due to the coronavirus outbreak, and the sky seemed to turn red with excitement.  
  Logo  
  The logo features a depiction of the mythical “Liver Bird,” a symbol of the City of Liverpool who also has a rich history. This creature can also be found as a decoration on the Royal Liver Building in the city. Additionally, the well-known Liverpool FC saying “You’ll never walk alone” is printed in the upper part of the logo.  
  Wataru Endo: How Liverpool's escape-room specialist solved Jurgen Klopp's midfield conundrum  
  Japan international Wataru Endo was not the midfield signing that excited supporters in the summer but he has become an important figure in Jurgen Klopp's last Liverpool team. With insight from those who have worked with Endo, Adam Bate examines why…  
  When Wataru Endo first arrived in Europe to play for Belgian club Sint-Truiden in 2018, few of his new colleagues knew what to expect. He had not made it off the bench for Japan at that summer's World Cup. Nor was it so easy to communicate.  
  Issame Charai was the assistant coach at Sint-Truiden. He remembers those early challenges. "He was really shy and his English was not so good so it was difficult," he tells Sky Sports. "There was a lot of showing him images, showing him what we expected."  
  But Charai recalls the day when Endo won over his team-mates. It was not on the football pitch, where he would go on to so illuminate their season that it would earn him a move to the Bundesliga with Stuttgart before finally making it to Liverpool this season.  
  It was in an escape room.  
  The popular task, in which a group tries to solve puzzles to find a way out of a locked room, was designed as a team-bonding exercise. "They had to find some codes," explains Charai. "We had some cameras so that we could check what the players were doing."  
  No prizes for guessing who was the problem solver. "We saw that it was Endo who found a lot of the codes himself. He is very intelligent on the pitch. But this is a guy who is also very intelligent off the pitch. That gained him a lot of credit with the other players."  
  Almost six years on and Endo is providing the solutions for Liverpool - or saving their life as Jurgen Klopp put it after a 3-0 win over Brentford. Added late in the window, the 31-year-old midfielder was not the superstar signing craved by supporters.  
  Also See:  
  "What can you expect? That he would be a standout player in the Premier League? That he would be a good player, we knew, but what he is making of that role," enthused Klopp. "You never know that people can develop to world class, but that is what happened."  
  Endo had been excellent for Stuttgart but the surprise at his impact is still understandable. That was a team that had just avoided relegation last season. Liverpool are a club with much loftier aspirations but one that had a glaring gap in the middle of the pitch.  
  The departures of Fabinho and Jordan Henderson coupled with Thiago's injury issues added urgency to the situation. It has turned out to be astute business. Endo has already helped Liverpool to win the Carabao Cup and is now a key figure as they chase bigger prizes.  
  At Stuttgart, when he first joined and was having to wait for his chance, it was the great German striker Mario Gomez who vouched for him. Speaking to Gomez alongside a group of journalists in Munich earlier this season, he described the scene after matches.  
  "We had the four against four," said Gomez of those warm-down routines reserved for the substitutes. "When I came into the dressing room, I was always telling the coach to put me in the same team as Wataru because then we would never lose. I love Wataru."  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Liverpool midfielder Wataru Endo reveals why he started to wear gumshields  
  Gomez regards Endo as an "example of how team sport should look" because of his attitude - someone who is "always giving everything for the group" - and it is noticeable that his new team-mates and manager are already telling similar tales about the player.  
  Dominik Szoboszlai, a former opponent, notes that he appears to be everywhere. "It feels like you passed him and then you turn around and he is already there." Klopp has described Endo as a machine. "He is one of the hardest-working people that I have ever met."  
  But it is not all about endeavour. "His defensive brain is outstanding," says Klopp. His presence in midfield has altered the dynamic. "He gives something different to the team, we have to say, that is clear. He is the one for the tackles," adds the Liverpool boss.  
  "He gives us a lot of freedom for a lot of things."  
  Alexis Mac Allister, in particular, has been relieved of his responsibilities as a holding midfielder and allowed to play a game that more naturally suits his talents. Floating into advanced areas and scoring goals, he is freed up to close down with intensity too.  
  The blend is better. The dramatic FA Cup defeat to Manchester United did not showcase Endo at his best - although he was denied a goal following a VAR check - but that was an aberration as a result of a demanding schedule. The statistics show his true influence.  
  In the Premier League this season, Endo is the player who has conceded the fewest goals per 90 minutes when he is on the pitch. It is not a coincidence, as Charai, his old coach from Belgium, points out. "His biggest quality is that he provides balance to the team."  
  He adds: "This is a guy who reads the game very well. He always thinks about what he has to do when his team loses the ball. He likes to play one- and two-touch so he does not complicate the game too much, but his technique is good and he is very strong mentally.  
  "He is the player you need."  
  Charai believes there is more to come. "Maybe you have not seen yet in England that he can score with his head and he has a good shot from distance." But with or without the goals, Endo is already proving to be the player that Liverpool needed. Klopp's final bargain.  
  The Reds boss will walk away at the end of the season but expect Endo to stick around a little longer. "He might be 31 on his passport but he is not," jokes Klopp. In the meantime, Endo might just help him crack the code to leave with at least one more trophy.  
  You can now start receiving messages and alerts for the latest breaking sports news, analysis, in-depth features and videos from our dedicated WhatsApp channel!  
  ReactionWhy Steven Gerrard savoured every moment of Anfield return  
  Steven Gerrard savoured every moment of his latest return to Anfield as he helped Liverpool FC Legends claim a 4-2 victory on Saturday.  
  The Reds icon was back in L4 for the LFC Foundation charity fixture against Ajax Legends, which was played in front of a crowd of just under 60,000.  
  Having trailed by two goals at half-time, Liverpool came back to win as Gregory Vignal, Djibril Cisse, Nabil El Zhar and Fernando Torres scored at the Kop end.  
  You have to accept cookies in order to view this content on our site.  
  Post-match, Gerrard spoke to Liverpoolfc.com about the emotions of a day that also saw Sven-Goran Eriksson fulfil his dream of taking charge of a Reds team.  
  Read Gerrard’s reaction at Anfield below…  
  On how special it is to return to Anfield…  
  It’s always been fantastic. When this crowd get going, especially in night games, it’s a powerful crowd. Obviously they’re building the capacity as we go along, it was 59,000 today. And I think they helped us turn the game around. 2-0 down at half-time but we felt it was against the run of play. We had to get the next goal and I thought the lads were terrific second half.  
  It’s all for a good cause, we’ve got to remember why we’re here – we’re here for a good cause. There’s going to be a lot of money raised today going to go to some fantastic causes. Sven being here today was very special; as soon as I knew he was going to be the gaffer today, I couldn’t wait to come and play for him one more time.  
  He [Sven] changed a lot of things at half-time, I think he knew we didn’t have any width in the first half and we were trying to force it through the middle. He made a lot of changes at half-time, gave us more width, asking us to stretch it more. He’s still got it! He’s still got the magic at half-time, he made a difference.  
  On being part of the occasion…  
  There’s three things. You want to come and play with your mates again. You obviously want to come for the cause, to help raise as much money. But the opportunity to play in front of these fans again, that’s the buzz. I was on the flight, I was like a big kid coming over. Six-and-a-half-hour flight, I couldn’t wait to get here. That’s what it’s all about.  
  On whether he is savouring these events more as he gets older…  
  Yeah, because I know I’m only going to play in front of this crowd another couple of times maybe. That’s if I stay off the carbs and stay off the beers! I was just looking round at the end thinking to myself, ‘This is going to [happen] less and less so just savour every moment.’ It was brilliant.  
  On today’s opponents…  
  A huge thank-you to Ajax as well, give them credit [for] coming over. We need them here as well to participate. We’ve raised over £6 million [through legends matches], played Barcelona, Ajax, Real Madrid. Hopefully it keeps coming.  
  A player from our history  
  Russell Crossley  
  Russell Crossley has the worst average of all goalkeepers in Liverpool’s history having conceded 138 goals in 73 matches or 1.89 goals a game! He has also the fewest amounts of clean sheets, only 11. The number of goals a ‘keeper concedes is of course not totally down to him but the team as a whole and keep in mind the Reds were relegated to the Second Division for the first time in 49 years in his final season at the club. Cyril Sidlow started the 1950/51 season as Liverpool’s main ‘keeper but Crossley had taken his…  
  Birthdate: 25 June 1927  
  Birthplace: Hebden Bridge, Yorkshire, England  
  Other clubs: Shrewsbury Town (1954-59), Kettering Town (1959-61)  
  Random Programme Cover  
  Player Profiles  
  LFChistory has profiles of all players who have appeared on Liverpool's teamsheet since the 1892/93 season, including players who never made an appearance for the first team, but made the bench at one time or another.  
  Season Archive  
  We've got all the results from official games, appearance & goal stats from 1892 to the present, every single line-up and substitutions!  
  Club Search  
  How many games Liverpool have played against a club, the business done between them, our form and which players have been most successful in their encounters. The most complete profile of our opponents you will find anywhere!  
  Kop Quote  
  Harry Kewell on his way back to his best in the 2005-2006 season  
  "I'm delighted I'm playing again so I can concentrate on football. I'm enjoying my football again, which is the main thing. I owe a lot to the manager for sticking by me when everyone else was giving me stick. I want to pay him back for that. The Liverpool fans have probably been the most frustrated with me and I want to pay them back as well, so it's great to hear them behind me."  
  Few facts from our database  
  Liverpool FC have scored 10442 goals in 5956 competitive matches registered at LFChistory.  
  215 of those goals are own goals and 549 came from the penalty spot.  
  This day in our history  
  Red Corner  
  Anfield's Unforgettable Nights: The Best Liverpool Matches Ever Played  
  25 March 2024  
  Relive the glory of Liverpool FC with a look back at the most unforgettable matches played at Anfield. From dramatic comebacks to historic victories, explore the games that have left an indelible mark on the hearts of fans.  
  Top 10 Major Sponsor Partners of Liverpool FC  
  24 March 2024  
  Explore the synergy between Liverpool FC and its top 10 major sponsor partners, including Standard Chartered, Nike, and Coca-Cola. Dive into how these strategic alliances enhance the fan experience, drive community engagement, and uphold the club's prestigious legacy.  
  Liverpool linked with another potential summer Bayer raid  
  23 March 2024  
  Fresh from the huge disappointment of seeing Liverpool's potential quadruple dream come to an end following our defeat to Manchester United in Sunday's FA Cup quarter final clash, this could still be a phenomenally successful final season for Jurgen Klopp.  
  A brief History of Liverpool FC  
  The Reds of Merseyside  
  Liverpool F.C., often simply known as ‘The Reds’, are one of the most decorated and prestigious clubs both in England and Europe and boast a proud, rich history since their inception in 1892. The Merseyside club has amassed a huge collection of trophies over the years, highlights of which include eighteen League titles, seven F.A. Cups, five Champions League wins, 3 UEFA Cup trophies and eight League Cups. The club has become synonymous with the song and phrase, “You’ll Never Walk Alone”, a tradition which begun in the sixties after Liverpool-based band Gerry and the Pacemakers had chart success with the song. The tune quickly caught on at Anfield and remains a permanent feature of the club’s games to this day. Liverpool have two fierce, long-standing rivalries with other local clubs, the first of which is with fellow Merseyside residents Everton and the other being with Manchester United, a rivalry which emerged out of the two clubs’ continued success, as well as their relative proximity. Both fixtures are known to be highly passionate and combative affairs both for the players and the fans. Liverpool’s famous badge is based on the liver bird, the symbol of the city, and although there have been various redesigns over the years to include other iconic images such as the Shankly gates and the flames to commemorate those who died in the Hillsborough disaster, the current badge is remarkably similar to the first incarnation, with the bird taking centre stage.  
  Formation and Entry Into the Football League  
  Liverpool F.C. was founded by John Houlding who was at that time the club president of Everton as well as the owner of Anfield, where the Toffees were then based. After an argument between Houlding and the rest of the Everton committee, the club relocated to their current home of Goodison Park and Houlding decided to form his own football team to take residence at Anfield and thus Liverpool F.C. was born. Because of the circumstances surrounding their birth, Liverpool were first seen sporting blue and white shirts similar to Everton but it didn’t take long for them to make the switch to the famous Red they continue to wear proudly to this day. A year after their founding, Liverpool joined the second tier of the Football League and were immediately successful, quickly gaining promotion to the First Division. The Reds’ first League title came in 1901, with a second following five years later, establishing Liverpool’s first taste of the league dominance they would later experience. After this initial glory, it would take the Anfield side until 1922 to pick up another league title but as before, the trophies came in pairs with Liverpool also winning the First Division in 1923 – the club’s first back-to-back titles. Although they experienced plenty of success at league level during this era, the Reds struggled when it came to cup competitions, falling at the final hurdle on several occasions.  
  Brief Decline and The Shankly Era  
  Despite winning another League title in 1947, Liverpool were unable to achieve sustained success and suffered the embarrassment of relegation in 1954 – the first demotion in the club’s history. The decline at Merseyside continued, reaching a nadir with an F.A. Cup exit to a non-league side. In order to reverse the club’s fortunes, a new manager was appointed in the guise of future Liverpool legend, Bill Shankly. Shankly made a host of sweeping changes to the set-up at Anfield including the introduction of a more tactics-based approach and significant alterations to the playing staff. The measures were immediately successful and Shankly led Liverpool back to the First Division in the 1961/62 season. The upward trend didn’t stop there however, and two seasons later, Liverpool would once again claim a League trophy, swiftly followed by their first F.A. Cup victory the next year.  
  Seventies and Eighties Glory  
  The Shankly era ended on a high with another League title, an F.A. Cup victory and Liverpool’s first taste of European glory in the form of the UEFA Cup but inevitably, Bill Shankly retired from football in 1974, having already secured his place in the club’s history and was succeeded by his assistant Bob Paisley. It didn’t take long for Paisley to adopt his former colleague’s winning ways and the new manager swiftly delivered another League and UEFA Cup double in 1976 but went even further the following year when he led the Reds to their first European Cup – now known as the Champions League. During this period, Liverpool made history when they became the first club in England to have a company’s logo on their shirts as a sponsor. The company was Japanese electronics firm Hitachi and soon after, shirt sponsors would become a common feature of football kits in all leagues across the country. Paisley’s time in charge of Liverpool would prove incredibly fruitful, bringing the club a total of three European Cups, six First Division victories and three League Cups. For the first time, Liverpool F.C. were able to build a period of sustained success in all competitions and through a variety of managers such as Joe Fagan and Kenny Dalglish. Tragically, the eighties not only saw Liverpool achieve massive success on the pitch but also brought two horrific incidents that would haunt the world of football forever. The first occurred in 1985 during a European match against Juventus at the Heysel Stadium when, after aggressive behaviour from both English and Italian fans, the Liverpool section of the crowd rushed towards their Juventus counterparts and breached one of the stadium’s fences. Both Juventus and Liverpool had expressed concern prior to the fixture about the Heysel Stadium being unsuitable for such a large match and their fears proved well founded, as the confrontation resulted in a large number of fans being crushed against a concrete wall as spectators struggled to escape the violence and rioting. In total, thirty-nine football fans lost their lives in the disaster, with a further six hundred sustaining injuries. The second disaster occurred four years later at Hillsborough during a match against Nottingham Forest that saw ninety six fans tragically lose their lives. This incident occurred due to mass overcrowding within the stadium, exacerbated by decisions made by the match’s police presence. Although initial blame was placed upon the supporters, recent inquiries have proven otherwise, vindicating Liverpool fans completely.  
  Managerial Struggles and Gradual Decline  
  After a brief slump under the charge of Dalglish’s successors Graeme Souness and Roy Evans, Frenchman Gérard Houllier was hired and he promptly restored Liverpool to their place at the top of English football, winning the Cup Treble in 2001. Unfortunately, although Liverpool continued to find success within cup competition, glory in the Premier League eluded them and this trend continued into the appointment of new manager Rafa Benítez who, although revered by fans for a further Champions League trophy in 2005, still struggled in the League and eventually left the club after a seventh placed finish. Benítez’s sacking would, however, spark further decline at Anfield during a time of managerial instability that saw Roy Hodgson, Kenny Dalglish and Brendan Rodgers all take the reins with varying degrees of fortune but none could return the sense of prestige and dominance that was felt at Liverpool during the eighties. In spite of this, several key players rose to prominence during this era that would go on to become bona fide club legends, namely Steven Gerard, Jamie Carragher and to a lesser extent, Fernando Torres who would cause controversy by leaving Anfield for Chelsea in a huge January transfer. Eventually, after a spate of changes both on the pitch and in the dugout, Liverpool F.C. found itself under the guidance of widely-respected and much sought after German manager Jürgen Klopp, previously of Borussia Dortmund. Although Klopp’s tenure is still in its early stages, he appears to have restored the feel good factor at Anfield with a series of impressive results and attractive, attacking performances.  
