  The 10 most expensive defender transfers of all time: Maguire to Man Utd, Van Dijk to Liverpool and Man City flop  
  Manchester United, Manchester City and Liverpool have been responsible for signing some of the most expensive defenders in history.  
  Big-money defensive signings have become more common in recent years as they are now expected to do much more than just prevent goals.  
  We’ve now taken a look at the 10 most expensive defenders in history and how they fared after completing their big-money moves.  
  Note: we’ve included any potential add-ons and bonuses in the total figures.  
  10. Achraf Hakimi – £60.9m  
  Despite winning the Serie A title in his debut season at Inter Milan, Hakimi was sold by the club in 2021 in order to raise funds.  
  Paris Saint-Germain fought off competition from Chelsea and won the race for his signature after agreeing to pay Inter an initial £51.3million and another £9.6million in add-ons.  
  The Morocco international has justified that price tag at the Parc des Princes and is widely regarded as one of the best right-backs in the world.  
  He’s recently been linked with Real Madrid and Manchester City but PSG are looking to extend his contract, which is due to expire in 2026.  
  9. Marc Cucurella – £63m  
  Cucurella enjoyed a brilliant debut season at Brighton in 2021/22 and his impressive performances attracted interest from Chelsea and Manchester City.  
  While City were willing to pay £40million for the left-back, Chelsea outbid them by giving the Seagulls an initial £56million and a further £7million in add-ons.  
  But he has failed to live up to expectations at Stamford Bridge and is currently behind Ben Chilwell and Levi Colwill in the pecking order.  
  8. Ruben Dias – £65m  
  One of two Manchester City defenders on this list, Dias joined Pep Guardiola’s side from Benfica in the summer of 2020.  
  The deal for the Portugal international was worth an initial £62million, with a further £3million subject to potential add-ons.  
  He made an instant impact at the Etihad Stadium, winning the Premier League Player of the Season award and the Football Writers’ Association (FWA) Footballer of the Year award in 2020/21.  
  The centre-back also helped the club win three successive Premier League titles, the FA Cup, the Carabao Cup, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  7= Lucas Hernandez – £68m  
  Bayern Munich signed Hernandez in 2019 after triggering the £68million release clause in his Atletico Madrid contract.  
  He enjoyed four trophy-filled seasons in Bavaria, winning four Bundesliga titles, two DFL-Supercups, the DFB-Pokal, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup.  
  But the France international, who can play at either left-back or centre-back, struggled with injury problems and made just 74 Bundesliga appearances for the club.  
  He was sold at a considerable loss in the summer of 2023, joining Paris Saint-Germain in a deal worth an initial £34million.  
  7= Matthijs de Ligt – £68m  
  Despite only being 24 years old, De Ligt has already been involved in two big-money transfers.  
  His most recent move saw him swap Juventus for Bayern Munich in 2022 after the Bundesliga side agreed to pay an initial £59.5million and a further £8.5million in add-ons.  
  The centre-back won the DFL-Supercup and the Bundesliga in 2022/23 and was also named in the Bundesliga Team of the Season.  
  He fell down the pecking order following the arrival of Kim Min-jae in the summer of 2023 but has now reclaimed his place in Thomas Tuchel’s starting XI.  
  5= Wesley Fofana – £75m  
  Fofana spent two seasons at Leicester City and established himself as one of the best young defenders in the Premier League.  
  The Foxes rejected three bids from Chelsea in the summer of 2022 before accepting a fourth offer of £70million upfront and an additional £5million in bonuses.  
  “It is a recognition of my work, but I’m trying not to think of the fee because that can quickly put me under a lot of pressure,” he said after completing the move. “It’s important that I keep the enjoyment of playing football.”  
  But injuries have plagued his first two years at Stamford Bridge, limiting the 23-year-old to just 20 appearances in a Chelsea shirt.  
  5= Virgil van Dijk – £75m  
  Eyebrows were raised in January 2018 when Liverpool bought Van Dijk from Southampton in a £75million deal – a then-world record fee for a defender.  
  But the centre-back has more than proved his worth, helping Liverpool win the Premier League, two Carabao Cups, the FA Cup, the Champions League, a UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  He’s also picked up a host of individual accolades, including the PFA Players’ Player of the Year award and the UEFA Men’s Player of the Year award in 2018/19.  
  The 32-year-old initially struggled after suffering an anterior cruciate knee ligament injury in October 2020 but has since rediscovered his best form.  
  3. Matthijs de Ligt – £77.1m  
  The aforementioned De Ligt became one of the most sought-after players in the world after captaining Ajax to the Champions League semi-finals and the Eredivisie title in 2018/19.  
  Juventus forked out an initial £67.7million and another £9.4million in potential add-ons for the then-19-year-old, making him the third-most expensive teenager of all time.  
  He won the Serie A title in his debut season and the Coppa Italia in 2020/21 but failed to replicate his Ajax form in a Juventus shirt.  
  The Netherlands international fell out of favour under Massimiliano Allegri in the 2021/22 campaign and was sold to Bayern Munich at a slight loss.  
  2. Josko Gvardiol – £77.6m  
  After winning the treble in 2022/23, Manchester City bolstered their defensive options by signing Gvardiol from RB Leipzig in a £77.6million deal.  
  “First of all, he’s a central defender left, that’s not easy,” Guardiola said. “His physical condition is really, really good and his build-up with his left foot is also really, really good.  
  “He is 21 years old so when you buy, of course, it’s a lot of money, but when you are 21 years old, it is not a problem. He will be with us for the future and that’s what we think.”  
  The Croatia international, who can play at centre-back and left-back, is a brilliant prospect but has struggled to adapt to the pace of Premier League football and is yet to justify that huge fee.  
  1. Harry Maguire – £80m  
  Having missed out on De Ligt in the summer of 2019, Manchester United switched their attention to Maguire and agreed to meet Leicester City’s £80million asking price.  
  The centre-back enjoyed a strong start to life at Old Trafford and was given the captain’s armband in January 2020, but his form took a nosedive amid United’s struggles in the 2021/22 season.  
  The 31-year-old has played a more prominent role in Ten Hag’s side in 2023/24, but he still faces an uncertain future at Old Trafford.  
  Related Articles  
  Just how good could Leeds United have been if they got all their targets when Marcelo Bielsa was in charge? Here's how their lineup could have ended up  
  Southgate has issued an emphatic response to claims he will become the next Man Utd manager after sending a strong message to the under-pressure Ten Hag  
  West Ham will attempt to sign Man Utd defender Harry Maguire for the second straight summer and the surprise magic number that could seal a deal has been revealed  
  A loaned out Liverpool player might be the answer to who replaces Joel Matip at Anfield next season, while a clear winner has emerged in the debate over who is having the better season between Saliba and Van Dijk  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Some of them were legendary, others, questionable at best.  
  Dozens of clubs have vanished off the face of the Greater Manchester nightlife scene over the last few decades.  
  Take a trip down memory lane and see if you remember any of these forgotten nightspots from your misspent youth:  
  Twisted Wheel, Whitworth Street, Manchester  
  Famous worldwide as one of the birthplaces of northern soul, the club originally opened in Brazennose Street in 1963, moving to Whitworth Street in 1965.  
  Soul fans came from all over the country to dance at its legendary all-nighters until it was shut down by the authorities in 1971.  
  The building was later home to Placemate 7, Follies and Legends until it closed for good in 2012. It was demolished in 2013 to make way for a hotel.  
  New Continental Club, Harter Street, Manchester  
  Affectionately known as The New Conti, the New Continental opened in 1967 when the old Conti club in Oxford Road was demolished.  
  Both were popular with nurses and thus also popular with men. It closed in 2001.  
  It later housed The Tube nightclub, which has also since closed.  
  READ MORE:  
  The Haçienda, Whitworth Street West, Manchester  
  No potted history of Manchester's clubland would be complete without the legendary Haçienda.  
  The club, founded by Factory Records boss Tony Wilson, opened in 1982 and played host to gigs by stars including Madonna, New Order and the Stone Roses as well as being central to the rise of acid house music and rave culture.  
  It lost millions of pounds despite being packed out with revellers in its heyday and gained a dark reputation for attracting drugs gangs in the 90s.  
  The club closed in 1997 and was demolished 18 months later.  
  Ikon, Bolton  
  By the time it closed in 2012, the building that originally housed the Astoria Palais de Danse was unrecognisable from when it opened in 1928, with with its elegant tiled facade covered by ugly red cladding.  
  Generations of Boltonians spent the some of the best years of their lives here, first in the dance hall of The Palais then under the disco lights of Cinderella Rockerfellas, Ritzy's and finally Ikon.  
  It was set to become an all-you-can-eat buffet.  
  Idol's Bar and the Lazy Pig, Oldham Street, Manchester  
  The promise of cheap drinks pulled in the punters to cheesy Idol's and the Lazy Pig that lurked in the basement below in the 90s.  
  The building later became Moho Live, renamed NQ Live.  
  Jilly's Rockworld, Oxford Road, Manchester  
  Some of you might remember Jilly's better as Fagin's, which opened in 1970.  
  Crowds flocked there in its heyday to watch the likes of Cliff Richard, Morecambe and Wise and Lulu perform.  
  Beneath the Oxford Street cabaret was sister venue Rafters, a disco and rock club that launched the career of Joy Division.  
  It later became known as the Music Box.  
  Both venues closed in 2010.  
  The Plaza, Oxford Street, Manchester  
  The place to be in the early 60s, the Plaza was managed by the now disgraced late DJ Jimmy Savile.  
  It later became Tiffany's, which was about as 70s as you could get with its disco balls and fake palm trees - which lent themselves well to its next incarnation as Tropicana.  
  Quaffers, Bredbury  
  Opened in a former golf club in 1978, over the next two decades Quaffers would play host to some of the biggest stars in the music world including Shirley Bassey and the Drifters.  
  The club closed in December 1998 and was bulldozed in 2004 to make way for a Homebase superstore.  
  Rififi, Stalybridge  
  One of the most popular clubs in Stalyvegas, Rififi tried hard to be classy with its wood-panelled interior, plush booths and outdoor terrace.  
  But, fittingly for a place with a name that translates as 'rough and tumble', it was marred by violence towards the end and its licence was permanently revoked in 2013.  
  Rotters, Oxford Street, Manchester  
  Based in the old Gaumont Cinema, Rotters replaced Romanoff's nightclub in the late 70s, keeping its flamboyant R-scripted carpets - which became famously sticky.  
  Cheap, cheerful and raucous, it was hugely popular.  
  The building was demolished in 1990 after Rotters closed to be replaced by an NCP car park.  
  21 Piccadilly, Manchester  
  Luring in the masses with an irresistible combination of cheap drinks and pounding chart music, this was a popular haunt with students and locals alike.  
  But it struggled to shake off its reputation for being a bit rough after attracting gangs in the late 80s and mid 90s.  
  Discotheque Royale, Peter Street, Manchester  
  'Royales' opened in the former Theatre Royal in 1978.  
  An episode of the late night dance music show The Hitman and Her was filmed there in 1990 which featured the first TV performance of Take That.  
  It was later known as Coliseum, then M-Two before closing in 2009.  
  Sol Viva, Bury  
  Famed for its spin the wheel drinks offers and 99p entry fee, Sol Viva (formerly The Roxy) closed in 2010.  
  The former Odeon cinema building that housed it was demolished in 2013.  
  The Thunderdome, Miles Platting  
  At the epicentre of the Madchester acid house scene was the Thunderdome - an edgier, more underground rival to the Haçienda, which was plagued by the same gang problems.  
  The Swinging Sporran, Sackville Street, Manchester  
  Originally a rock pub frequented by bikers, the Sporran also became the preferred watering hole of UMIST students. It later hosted early sets by the Chemical Brothers, or the Dust Brothers, as they were then known. It's now Retro Bar.  
  Your nightclub memories ...  
  Hundreds of readers shared their hazy memories of the clubs and the nights they danced away on their sticky carpets on Facebook.  
  Johnny Del Piero wrote on Facebook: "I was gutted when Jilly's closed but having put events on at the Music Box, which was a part of Jilly's, you could tell it was going downhill. Such a shame though. Met great friends in that place."  
  Sarah Jane posted: "Piccadilly 21s was the BEST. Should re-open get the old manager back, Martyn, some of the best nights ever."  
  Other suggestions included DeVilles, The Banshee (previously Henry's) and Peter Stringfellow's Millionaire Club.  
  Reminiscing about the Cyprus Tavern, Fran Harvey wrote: "Paddled through beer to the dancefloor, but great music made it worth it."  
  We want to hear more of your Manchester clubbing memories - the characters, the romances, the friendships and the fashions.  
  We know you must have damning photographic evidence lurking somewhere of a mate's dodgy 80s haircut or shellsuit - and we want to see them all.  
  To share your stories and photos, post them to our Facebook page, tweet us @MENnewsdesk or email website@men-news.co.uk and we'll feature the best.  
  You can also leave your comments below.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  The season threatened to be overshadowed by the attempted formation of a European Super League. On 18 April 2021, Manchester United announced they were joining 11 other European clubs as founding members of the Super League, a proposed 20-team competition intended to rival the UEFA Champions League.[1] The announcement drew an unprecedented backlash from supporters, other clubs, media partners, sponsors, players and the UK Government, forcing the club to withdraw just two days later.[2][3][4][5][6] The failure of the project led to the resignation of executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward, while resultant protests against Woodward and owners the Glazer family led to a pitch invasion ahead of a league match against Liverpool on 2 May 2021, which saw a Premier League game get postponed due to supporter protests for the first time in the competition's history.[7][8]  
  On the pitch, United equalled the biggest win in Premier League history with a 9–0 victory against Southampton on 2 February 2021,[9] but ended the season with defeat on penalties in the UEFA Europa League final against Villarreal, going four straight seasons without a trophy and one season away from equalling their worst trophy drought since the club was last relegated.[10][11]  
  Due to the belated end to the previous season as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Manchester United played just one friendly before the start of their 2020–21 Premier League season, away to Aston Villa on 12 September 2020.[12] Aston Villa's Ollie Watkins scored the only goal of the game in the 16th minute.[13]  
  Manchester United's opening match of the 2020–21 Premier League season was due to be away to Burnley on 12 September, but was postponed to ensure a minimum of 30 days between seasons, as per Premier League regulations; the club's final game of the 2019–20 season was on 16 August.[14] Instead, United began their season on 19 September at home to Crystal Palace. After Andros Townsend opened the scoring for the visitors early on, David de Gea denied Jordan Ayew from the penalty spot in the second half, only for the video assistant referee (VAR) to intervene as De Gea had advanced from his line before Ayew had struck the ball; former Manchester United winger Wilfried Zaha scored from the re-take. Donny van de Beek, making his debut after coming on midway through the second half, pulled a goal back for United, but Zaha scored a third for Palace five minutes later, making him the first former United player to score more than one Premier League goal in a single match against United. It was the third time United had lost their opening home match of a Premier League season and the first since 2014–15.[15] The following week, away to Brighton & Hove Albion, United came back from a goal down via an own goal by Lewis Dunk and one from Marcus Rashford – the 10,000th goal in the club's history[16] – to lead 2–1 as the match entered stoppage time at the end of the second half; however, as additional time drew to an end, Solly March equalised for the home side. As United searched for a last-minute winning goal, the referee blew the final whistle with the score at 2–2, only for the VAR to award a penalty to United for a handball by Neal Maupay. Bruno Fernandes scored the penalty to give United their first league win of the season.[17]  
  In the following match on 4 October, the last before the international break, a Bruno Fernandes penalty gave United an early lead at home to Tottenham Hotspur, who were led by former United manager José Mourinho; however, Spurs overturned the deficit thanks to Tanguy Ndombele and Son Heung-min. After United forward Anthony Martial was sent off for slapping Erik Lamela in the face, Harry Kane scored a brace, Son added a second goal and Serge Aurier also scored to give Tottenham a 6–1 win. It was Manchester United's joint-biggest defeat in the Premier League, matching the scoreline from the Manchester derby in 2011, as well as the heaviest defeat under either Ole Gunnar Solskjær as manager or Ed Woodward as executive vice-chairman. The four goals United conceded in the first half was the most they had conceded at home in a single half since November 1957, also against Tottenham.[18] United returned from the international break with a trip to Newcastle United on 17 October, and went behind early on to a Luke Shaw own goal. After Harry Maguire equalised with a header midway through the first half, Fernandes had a penalty saved by Newcastle goalkeeper Karl Darlow in the second, the first he had failed to score since joining the club in February. He eventually scored in the 86th minute, followed by goals from Aaron Wan-Bissaka in the 90th – the first of his senior career – and Rashford in the sixth minute of added time.[19] On 24 October, United were held to a goalless draw by Chelsea.[20] The result meant the club had failed to win any of their first three home league games for the first time since 1972–73; however, the result also extended United's unbeaten league record against Chelsea to six matches, with the most recent defeat coming in November 2017, while Chelsea had not won a league match at Old Trafford since the 2012–13 season.  
  On 1 November, United played rival Arsenal at home. Paul Pogba's foul inside the box led to Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's winning penalty as Arsenal won a league match at Old Trafford for the first time since 17 September 2006.[21] Before the international break, United travelled to Everton. The visitors won 3–1; Fernandes scored his first brace of the season before Edinson Cavani sealed the victory deep into the added time with his first United goal.[22] Two weeks later, United returned to action at home against West Bromwich Albion. A retaken penalty from Fernandes – given after Albion's goalkeeper, former United shot stopper Sam Johnstone stepped out of the line before saving the first – secured United's maiden home league win of the season.[23] On 29 November, United visited Southampton. Trailed 2–0 at half-time by goals from Jan Bednarek and James Ward-Prowse, United came back to win 3–2 via Fernandes and a brace from Cavani. Goalkeeper Dean Henderson made his league debut for the club, coming on at the interval for the injured De Gea. The win made United the first side in Premier League history to win four consecutive away games despite trailing in everyone of them, and also made United won eight consecutive top-flight away matches for the first time in their history.[24]  
  On 5 December, United played West Ham United at the London Stadium. Henderson, on his first league start for the club, conceded to Tomáš Souček in the first half. In the second half, the visitors produced yet another comeback to win 3–1; Pogba and Mason Greenwood scored their first league goals of the season, before Rashford sealed the club's ninth straight away victory in the league.[25] The next week, United were held 0–0 at home by derby rivals Manchester City; this was the first derby played at Old Trafford to end goalless since October 2015, and it was United's third consecutive clean sheet against City in all competitions, the longest since a run of four – all in the league – between 1994 and 1995.[26] On 17 December, United managed yet another away comeback in a 3–2 win at Sheffield United, extending the club record to 10 consecutive league away wins. Rashford's two goals and Martial's first league goal of the season were enough to cancel out David McGoldrick's brace and keep Sheffield United winless after their first 13 league games of the season.[27] On 20 December, United went rampant as they beat their "Roses" rival Leeds United 6–2 at home. Meeting for the first time in the league since 2004, McTominay opened the game with a brace inside three minutes, becoming the first player to do so in the league's history. Fernandes scored in the 20th minute before Victor Lindelöf scored his first goal of the season to put United 4–0 up after just 37 minutes. Liam Cooper pulled one back for the visitors before half time. Daniel James scored his first league goal of the season midway through the second half, before Fernandes scored a penalty in the 70th minute. Three minutes later, Stuart Dallas scored Leeds' second to close the match. This was the first league match in which United scored more than five goals since the 8–2 win over Arsenal in August 2011.[28] United opened the Boxing Day matchday with a visit to Leicester City. Leading twice via Rashford and Fernandes with Harvey Barnes' goal sandwiched in between, United substitute defender Axel Tuanzebe scored an own goal after diverting Jamie Vardy's attempt to make the score 2–2.[29] The club ended 2020 with a home game against Wolverhampton Wanderers. Rashford scored at 92:51 – United's latest winning goal since Michael Owen on 20 September 2009 (95:27) – to make United end the year in second place.[30]  
  On New Year's Day, United hosted Aston Villa in the second game of the matchweek. Martial scored first after 40 minutes before Bertrand Traoré equalises in the 58th minute. Fernandes sealed the win via a penalty three minutes later after referee Michael Oliver judged that Pogba had been fouled by Douglas Luiz inside the box.[31] On 12 January, United visited Burnley for the game in hand from the first matchday. Pogba volleyed in the only goal of the game to send United top of the table with a three-point lead over defending champions and arch rivals Liverpool, whom they would meet in the following match.[32] Both teams would only fire blanks as the said match ended goalless, keeping United top while Liverpool were down to fourth below Manchester City and Leicester City upon both sides' win in this matchday.[33] Three days later, they played Fulham away. Ademola Lookman scored after five minutes to give Fulham the early lead. Cavani equalised 16 minutes later after a mistake by Fulham goalkeeper Alphonse Areola. United completed another comeback in the 65th minute by Pogba's long-range curling effort, sending United back to the top of the table after starting the match in third.[34] On 27 January, United played the first return leg of the league season as they hosted bottom-placed Sheffield United. The visitors' Kean Bryan opened the scoring after 23 minutes to end the first half 1–0 up. Maguire equalised in 64th minute only to be cancelled by Oliver Burke as Manchester United were defeated in the league for the first time in 14 matches while Sheffield United earned only their second win of the league season.[35] United ended January with a visit to rivals Arsenal. The match ended goalless as the visitors, still searching for a first league win in this fixture since April 2018, including all five league meetings under Solskjær, managed to deny Mikel Arteta from becoming the first Arsenal manager to win his first three matches against United.[36]  
  United began February with a 9–0 victory over Southampton that equalled their own record for the biggest home win in the Premier League, set in 1995, while the visitors equalled their worst Premier League defeat, set in 2019. Eight different players scored, including an own goal by Jan Bednarek and the record-equalling goal scored by James. Martial, who came on at half-time, was the only player to score more than once.[37] Four days later, United twice lost the lead in a 3–3 draw against Everton. Cavani and Fernandes scored past Everton's second-choice keeper Robin Olsen in the first half, only for Abdoulaye Doucouré and James Rodríguez to level the scores three minutes apart from each other. McTominay restored the lead only for Dominic Calvert-Lewin to equalise again in the final minute of stoppage time following Tuanzebe's foul on Everton substitute and fellow United Academy graduate Joshua King.[38] On Valentine's Day, United visited West Bromwich Albion. Albion's loanee forward Mbaye Diagne rubbed Lindelöf's face off upon scoring inside 83 seconds. Fernandes equalised with a volley in the 44th minute following a cross from Shaw. In the second half, Maguire had a penalty cancelled by referee Craig Pawson after a stumble with Semi Ajayi was judged by VAR Jonathan Moss as not a foul.[39] Facing Newcastle United the next Sunday, Rashford opened the scoring before Allan Saint-Maximin made the equaliser six minutes later. In the second half, Fernandes assisted James' goal and scored a penalty himself to secure a 3–1 win. Forward Shola Shoretire made his first team debut as he came on for Rashford.[40] United ended the month with a 28 February visit to Chelsea. A presumed handball from Callum Hudson-Odoi resulted in a penalty cancelled by the VAR as the fixture ended goalless again, extending United's unbeaten league record against Chelsea to seven matches.[41]  
  March began with a visit to Selhurst Park, where United had not been beaten in the previous 11 fixtures and won the last four. The former record was extended but not so for the latter; United failed to get revenge on Crystal Palace for their home defeat in September, as the match ended in a 0–0 draw.[42] On 7 March, United visited derby rivals' home and in-form league leaders Manchester City. Fernandes scored a penalty in the second minute after Gabriel Jesus' foul on Martial in the box. Shaw scored United's second goal five minutes into the second half – his first league goal since August 2018 – as United won for the third successive time at the City of Manchester Stadium and tighten the gap to 11 points; this was City's first defeat in 20 league matches, breaking their 21-match winning run across all competitions.[43] The next week, United hosted West Ham. An own goal by Craig Dawson following a shot from McTominay was the only goal scored as the hosts returned to the second place.[44]  
  Following the international break at the end of March, United returned to action with a home game against Brighton. Despite starting brightly, it was the visitors who took the lead through former United striker Danny Welbeck in the 13th minute. Rashford levelled the scores just after the hour mark, before Greenwood sealed the win with a header seven minutes from the end, the eighth time in 2020–21 that they have won after being in a losing position. It was only the second time in the Premier League that United had come from behind to do the double over an opponent in a single season; the other being was against Southampton in 2012–13.[45] On 11 April, United travelled to London to play Tottenham. Cavani seemingly scored an opener for the visiting side, but the goal was ruled out after it was seen by VAR that McTominay had hit Son Heung-min in the face and the goal was ruled out. Just moments later, Son scored the actual opener and gave the home side the lead. Twelve minutes into the second half, Fred scored his first league goal for United since September 2018 to equalise the score. Cavani then scored for real in the 79th minute, giving United the lead. In the final minute of stoppage time, Greenwood scored to secure a win for United and extended their unbeaten away run in the league to 23 matches.[46][47] In the next game against Burnley, Greenwood scored two goals which sandwiched James Tarkowski's equaliser before Cavani sealed the 3–1 win in the added time.[48] The final league match of April saw Manchester United's first visit to "Roses" rival Leeds' Elland Road since October 2003, which ended goalless.[49]  
  The 2 May match against rivals Liverpool was postponed due to anti-Glazer protests at Old Trafford.[50] The match at Aston Villa on 9 May saw United trailed by Traoré's first half goal. In the second half, Fernandes scored a penalty kick following Douglas Luiz's foul on Pogba, before Greenwood and Cavani completed their 10th Premier League comeback of the season, the most for any club in a single season.[51] Two days later, United hosted Leicester by fielding a much-changed starting line-up. Left-back Luke Thomas opened the scoring after 10 minutes, this was his first goal for Leicester's first team. Greenwood equalised five minutes later, but Leicester got their winning goal via a thumping header from center-back Çağlar Söyüncü, his first goal since November 2019 as local rivals Manchester City were confirmed Premier League champions for the fifth time, all within the past 10 years. This was United's first league defeat since another 1–2 against Sheffield United in January 2021.[52] This was also United's first home defeat to Leicester since 31 January 1998, and the first successive defeat to Leicester in all competitions since 1973.[53] Two days later, United finally hosted Liverpool. Fernandes opened the scoring after 10 minutes and lasted 24 minutes before Diogo Jota's equaliser. Roberto Firmino scored twice to bring the visitors 3–1 up. Rashford pulled one back but Mohamed Salah sealed the game to send Liverpool to fifth. This was United's first home league defeat to Liverpool since the 0–3 in March 2014, with Firmino the first Liverpool player to score a league brace at Old Trafford since Steven Gerrard, who did it in the aforementioned match.[54] On the final home match of the season, United played the already-relegated Fulham. Cavani's shot from 40 yards opened the scoring chart, but Joe Bryan equalised later on.[55] Leicester's defeat to Chelsea later that night secured United's second place finish.[56] On the final matchday on 23 May, in the away match against Wolverhampton, Anthony Elanga headed home his first senior goal before equaliser by Nélson Semedo. Romain Saïss' foul on Van de Beek inside the box resulted in a penalty for United executed by Juan Mata, who slotted the ball in to secure a 2–1 win in Wolves' manager Nuno Espírito Santo's final match in charge of the club. United thus became only the fourth side to remain unbeaten away from home in an entire English top-flight campaign, stretching from the first season in 1888–89.[57]  
  Source: Premier League Rules for classification: 1) Points; 2) Goal difference; 3) Goals scored; 4) If the champions, relegated teams or qualified teams for UEFA competitions cannot be determined by rules 1 to 3, rules 4.1 to 4.3 are applied – 4.1) Points gained in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.2) Away goals scored in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.3) Play-offs[61] (C) Champions Notes:  
  ^ Since the winners of the 2020–21 FA Cup, Leicester City, also qualified for the Europa League based on league position, the second Europa League group stage berth allocated to England was transferred to the sixth-placed team.  
  As a Premier League side, Manchester United entered the 2020–21 FA Cup in the Third Round Proper along with the other Premier League and Championship clubs. For this round, they were drawn at home against Championship side Watford.[62] United took the lead via stand-in captain Scott McTominay inside five minutes, it was the only goal of the game as the hosts won 1–0.[63] The draw for the fourth and fifth round were made on 11 January, conducted by Peter Crouch.[64] They were drawn against arch rivals Liverpool.[65] Liverpool took the lead through Mohamed Salah after 18 minutes, before Mason Greenwood's equaliser eight minutes later. Marcus Rashford scored the second, only to be equalised by Salah. Substitute Bruno Fernandes then scored the match-deciding free kick 12 minutes from time as United won 3–2, earning their first victory against Liverpool in all competitions since March 2018.[66] In the fifth round, they played host to West Ham United. McTominay scored seven minutes into extra time to send the home side into the quarter-finals for the seventh successive season, equalling the club's longest home winning run in the competition (nine), set between 1908 and 1912. The match was also the first in English football to have a concussion substitute, as West Ham's Issa Diop did not return for the second 45 minute-half following his collision with Anthony Martial.[67] In the quarter-finals, United were defeated 3–1 by Leicester City, the club's first domestic away loss since January 2020. Kelechi Iheanacho struck first before being equalised by Greenwood. In the second half, goals from Youri Tielemans and Iheanacho sealed Leicester's first FA Cup semis in 39 years and the first win against United in any competition since the 5–3 win in the league in September 2014.[68]  
  Manchester United received a bye to the third round of the 2020–21 EFL Cup, having finished third in the 2019–20 Premier League and thus qualified for the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League. The draw took place on 6 September 2020 and paired United with the winners of the second round tie between Reading and Luton Town, both of the Championship.[69] Luton won that match 1–0 and hosted the third round match on 22 September.[70] United took the lead just before half-time through a Juan Mata penalty kick. In the second half, goalkeeper Dean Henderson, making his first-team debut, denied Luton an equaliser with a one-handed save from Tom Lockyer, before substitutes Marcus Rashford and Mason Greenwood both scored in the last couple of minutes to give United a 3–0 win.[71]  
  In the fourth round, the club was drawn against the winners of the match between Preston North End and Brighton & Hove Albion,[72] which Brighton won 2–0.[73] The match came just four days after the two sides had met in the league, and saw Scott McTominay and Paul Pogba score their first goals of the season, while Juan Mata was again on the scoresheet to give United a 3–0 win.[74]  
  In the quarter-finals, United were again given an away draw, this time against fellow Premier League club Everton.[75] Playing before 2,000 spectators, United won 2–0 via late goals from Edinson Cavani and Anthony Martial.[76]  
  In the semi-finals, they met derby rivals Manchester City at home. The clubs had met thrice in this round – in 1969–70, 2009–10, and 2019–20; the team progressed from each of these ties would gone on to win the trophy. City, the EFL Cup holders for three consecutive seasons, progressed to the record-equalling fourth final in a row with a 2–0 victory over a defensively poor United, who suffered a fourth consecutive cup competition semi-final exit.[77]  
  United qualified for the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League after finishing third in the 2019–20 Premier League. This was their 23rd UEFA Champions League campaign, more than any English club. The draw for the group stage took place in Geneva, Switzerland on 1 October 2020.[78] The club was drawn in Group H with Paris Saint-Germain, RB Leipzig and Champions League group stage debutants İstanbul Başakşehir. This was United's first meeting with Paris Saint-Germain since the 2018–19 round of 16 tie, which United won on away goals through a stoppage time penalty, while they had never met Leipzig and Başakşehir.  
  In the first group match, United got a 2–1 away win at Paris Saint-Germain; goals from Bruno Fernandes and Marcus Rashford cancelled out Anthony Martial's own goal.[79] United then beat RB Leipzig 5–0 in the second match a week later; Mason Greenwood opened the scoring in the first half, Rashford scored his first senior hat-trick after coming on as a second-half substitute, and Martial also scored a late penalty. Rashford's hat-trick was the first scored by a United substitute since current manager Solskjær did so against Nottingham Forest in 1999.[80] It was United's eighth hat-trick in the Champions League, scored by six different players. It was the club's first in the competition since Wayne Rooney against Club Brugge in the 2015–16 play-off round, their first in the Champions League proper since Robin van Persie against Olympiacos in the 2013–14 knockout phase, and the first in the competition's group stage since Michael Owen against Wolfsburg in the 2009–10 season.[81] Spanning 16 minutes, it was also the quickest of the five hat-tricks scored by substitutes in the competition's history.[citation needed]  
  In the third match, United lost 2–1 away to İstanbul Başakşehir, who had former United defender Rafael in their team. Former Chelsea forward Demba Ba gave Başakşehir their first ever goal in the Champions League on the way to claiming their first point – and first win – in the competition. The result ended United's club record 10-match winning streak on the road in all competitions, stretching back to a 1–1 draw with Tottenham in June 2020; it was also their first away defeat in all competitions in 19 matches, stretching back to January 2020.[82]  
  In the return leg 20 days later, United got their revenge against Başakşehir by winning 4–1. Fernandes scored twice inside 20 minutes before Rashford slotted home a penalty to bring United led by three goals at half-time in a Champions League game for the first time since the 7–1 win over Roma in April 2007. A direct free-kick goal from Deniz Türüç – the first to be scored in the Champions League against United since Franck Ribéry in March 2010 – was cancelled out by Daniel James, who scored at home for the first time since August 2019.[83]  
  On 2 December, United were defeated 3–1 by Paris Saint-Germain, with a brace from Neymar and a goal from Marquinhos cancelled Rashford's, who scored for the third consecutive match against the Parisians.[84] The next week, Leipzig also got their revenge by winning 3–2 with goals from Angeliño, Amadou Haidara, and Justin Kluivert; Angeliño's goal at 1:49 was the quickest Champions League goal scored against United since Alan's for Sporting Braga in October 2012 (1:27). United scored two late goals via Fernandes and Ibrahima Konaté's own goal but their Champions League time was up before they could get the equaliser needed to progress. This was the first time since both legs of the quarter-final in 2002–03 that they conceded three or more goals in consecutive Champions League games while Solskjær became the first manager of an English club to lose at least six times in his first 10 Champions League games, having lost in 2018–19 against Paris Saint-Germain at home in the round of 16 and both of the season's quarter-final matches versus Barcelona.[85]  
  ^ a b Tied on head-to-head points (3). Head-to-head away goals: Paris Saint-Germain 1, RB Leipzig 0.  
  As one of the third-place finishers in the Champions League group stage, United entered the UEFA Europa League knockout phase. This was their fifth Europa League campaign, having also entered in the knockout phase in 2011–12 and 2015–16 as well as starting at the group stage during their 2016–17 winning campaign and 2019–20.  
  In the round of 32, United were drawn against Spanish club Real Sociedad, whom they last met in the 2013–14 UEFA Champions League group stage.[92] The first leg was played at Juventus Stadium in Turin due to travel restrictions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. Former United winger Adnan Januzaj, playing against the club for the first time since he was sold to Sociedad in July 2017, had the first chance of the tie, but United went on to win 4–0 with two goals from Bruno Fernandes and one each from Marcus Rashford and Daniel James. Winger Amad made his first-team debut for the club when he came on for Mason Greenwood.[93] In the return leg at Old Trafford, Mikel Oyarzabal's missed penalty and a goal from Axel Tuanzebe that was disallowed for a foul by Lindelöf meant the match finished as a goalless draw. Forward Shola Shoretire made his European debut when he came on for Greenwood and became the youngest United player to appear in a European fixture, beating the record of Norman Whiteside by 108 days.[94]  
  In the round of 16, United were drawn against Italian club and fellow former UEFA Champions League winner Milan, whom they last met in the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League knockout phase.[95] This would be their first meeting outside the European Cup/UEFA Champions League.[96] In the first leg, Amad scored first – his maiden goal for United – only to be equalised by Simon Kjær in the stoppage time.[97] In the second leg, substitute Paul Pogba, playing his first game since 6 February 2021, scored the only goal as United progressed to the quarter-finals with a 2–1 aggregate win. Former United striker Zlatan Ibrahimović played against the club for the first time since leaving for LA Galaxy in March 2018 and nearly equalised via a header saved by goalkeeper Dean Henderson.[98]  
  In the quarter-finals, United were drawn against another Spanish club in the form of Granada, whom they never played against before.[99] This was the first season in their history that United faced more than one Spanish opposition. United won the first leg 2–0 with goals scored by Rashford and Fernandes, the club's first ever consecutive European away win against Spanish sides. Rashford became the first Englishman to score eight European competition proper goals in a single season since Bobby Charlton in 1964–65 season.[100] In the return leg, a goal from Edinson Cavani and an own goal from Jesús Vallejo ensured United's passage to the semi-finals.[101]  
  In the semi-finals, United met Italian club Roma, whom they last met in the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League knockout stage. After scoring first via Fernandes, United fell behind to goals from Lorenzo Pellegrini's penalty and former Manchester City forward Edin Džeko. In the second half, United scored five without reply; Fernandes scored his second via a penalty, Cavani scored a brace, with Pogba and Greenwood scoring one each to secure a first-leg win of 6–2. This made United the first side to score six goals in a major European competition's semi-final since Real Madrid won 6–0 against Zürich in 1964.[102] The second leg was a tight one; United scored first through Cavani only to be reversed by Džeko and Bryan Cristante. Cavani scored again, but Nicola Zalewski's goal, which later would reassigned as Alex Telles' own goal, sent Roma to their first victory over United since 2007. However, United still went through with an 8–5 aggregate win as manager Solskjær progressed to his first final as United's manager, the club's first European final since the victorious 2017 UEFA Europa League final.[103]  
  In the final, they met first-time finalists Villarreal, United's third Spanish opposition this season. The clubs previously met four times, in the 2005–06 and 2008–09 Champions League group stages. All ended in goalless draws.[104][105] The final was held on 26 May 2021, on the 22nd anniversary of the now-manager Ole Gunnar Solskjær's winning goal in the UEFA Champions League final and also would have been the 112th birthday of former manager Matt Busby, who won the club its first European title in 1968. This match ended in a 1–1 draw after 120 minutes; Gerard Moreno stroke first before Cavani equalised in 55th minute. David de Gea became the last kicker in the penalties and the only one failed to score, as his was saved by Gerónimo Rulli, handing Villarreal their first ever major trophy and their head coach Unai Emery, formerly of Arsenal, his record fourth UEFA Cup/Europa League title, surpassing three-time winner Giovanni Trapattoni.[106] Some of the team were later criticised on social media for removing their silver medal on field, or even refused to wear one.[107]  
  ^ The match was originally due to take place at Sociedad's Anoeta Stadium, but was moved due to Spanish government restrictions on travellers from England regarding the new coronavirus variant.[108][109]  
  ^ Fee reported as £35 million, plus £5 million in add-ons.[119]  
  ^ Fee reported as £13.6 million, plus £1.8 million in add-ons.[121]  
  ^ "Manchester United vs. Milan" (JSON). Union of European Football Associations. 11 March 2021. Retrieved 11 March 2021.  
  ^ "Milan vs. Manchester United" (JSON). Union of European Football Associations. 18 March 2021. Retrieved 18 March 2021.  
  ^ "Manchester United vs. Roma" (JSON). Union of European Football Associations. 29 April 2021. Retrieved 29 April 2021.  
  ^ Marshall, Adam (8 September 2020). "London move for Levitt". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 8 September 2020.  
  ^ Marshall, Adam (18 September 2020). "Loan move sealed for Garner". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 18 September 2020.  
  On 21 November 2021, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjær was sacked and replaced as caretaker by first-team coach Michael Carrick. Eight days later, Ralf Rangnick was appointed as interim manager until the end of the season, taking charge officially on 3 December. Erik ten Hag was appointed as Solskjær's permanent successor on 21 April 2022, to take over from the end of this season.  
  This was United's fifth trophyless season in a row, their longest since a run of six between 1968–69 and 1973–74. United recorded their worst points tally in the Premier League era, finishing at just 58 points. Despite this, they still finished sixth and qualified for the UEFA Europa League. United were knocked out of the EFL Cup in the third round by West Ham United, and out of the FA Cup in the fourth round by Middlesbrough on penalties. United also reached the UEFA Champions League round of 16.  
  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Manchester United did not go on an overseas tour in the 2021–22 pre-season. Instead, they played matches in England, beginning with an away match against Championship side Derby County – managed by United's record goalscorer, Wayne Rooney – on 18 July 2021.[1] Tahith Chong, who was playing despite having agreed to join Birmingham City on loan for the season, scored the first goal in the 18th minute. He was substituted at half-time by Facundo Pellistri, who added a second on the hour mark. Colin Kazim-Richards pulled a goal back for Derby, but United held on to win 2–1.[2] United's next game was against Queens Park Rangers on 24 July.[1] Jesse Lingard opened the scoring in the third minute, but Charlie Austin equalised four minutes later. QPR then scored three goals in the space of eight minutes in the second half to give them a 4–1 lead with half an hour to play. Anthony Elanga pulled a goal back for Manchester United in the 73rd minute, but it was not enough to prevent defeat.[3]  
  On 28 July, United returned to Old Trafford to play Premier League debutants Brentford.[1] Elanga scored his second goal in two games in the 12th minute, only for Shandon Baptiste to equalise eight minutes later. Andreas Pereira then put United in front again with a volley from 25 yards out that went in off the underside of the crossbar; however, Bryan Mbeumo equalised for Brentford with 12 minutes left to play, and the visitors left with a draw.[4] United were scheduled to play an away game against another Championship club, Preston North End, on 31 July,[5] but the match was cancelled due to a number of suspected positive COVID-19 tests within the Manchester United team.[6] The final pre-season game was at home to fellow Premier League side Everton on 7 August;[1] United were 3–0 up by half-time via goals from Mason Greenwood, Harry Maguire and Bruno Fernandes, before Diogo Dalot scored a fourth in the second half.[7]  
  The league season started with a home match against Roses rival Leeds United on 14 August 2021. Bruno Fernandes scored a hat-trick, and Mason Greenwood and Fred scored the other two goals in a 5–1 win, as Paul Pogba equalled a Premier League record with four assists. Luke Ayling scored the only goal for the visitors.[9] The following week, United travelled to face Southampton, and went behind on the half-hour mark, when Fred deflected Ché Adams' shot past David de Gea for an own goal. Greenwood equalised 10 minutes into the second half, but United were unable to find a winner and the game finished 1–1, extending United's unbeaten away run to 27 league matches, equalling the record set by Arsenal in 2004.[10] That record was broken the following week, when on 29 August 2021, United travelled to face Wolverhampton Wanderers in the final match before the first international break of the season. Raphaël Varane made his debut following his move from Real Madrid, and provided the assist as Greenwood scored the only goal of the game to secure a 1–0 win.[11]  
  United's first game after the international break was at home to Newcastle United on 11 September and marked Cristiano Ronaldo's second debut for the club after re-signing from Juventus. It took him until injury time at the end of the first half to open the scoring, turning home the rebound after Newcastle goalkeeper Freddie Woodman spilled a long-range shot from Greenwood. Javier Manquillo equalised for Newcastle in the 56th minute, but Ronaldo restored United's lead six minutes later with a shot through Woodman's legs following a through-ball from Luke Shaw. Fernandes then scored a third with a long-range strike 10 minutes from full time, before Jesse Lingard scored his first goal for the club since August 2020, as United won 4–1 to return to the top of the table.[12] In the next match away to West Ham United on 19 September, United went behind on the half-hour when a shot from Saïd Benrahma was deflected past De Gea off Varane; however, less than five minutes later, Ronaldo scored the equaliser, following up after his original shot was saved by Łukasz Fabiański. A minute from the end of normal time, Lingard put United in front with a curling shot into the top corner from just inside the penalty area, but deep into injury time, West Ham were awarded a penalty after Shaw was deemed to have handled the ball in his own area. Mark Noble was brought on specifically to take the kick, but De Gea dived the right way to make the save;[13] it was his first penalty save in the league since October 2014.[14] United then played host to Aston Villa on 25 September, and lost defenders Harry Maguire and Shaw to injury either side of half-time. The match remained goalless until the 88th minute, when Kortney Hause headed in a corner. The Villa defender then gave away a penalty in injury time when he handled the ball after an Edinson Cavani flick-on; however, Fernandes' shot went over the bar, giving Villa their first win at Old Trafford in any competition since December 2009.[15]  
  United took the lead just before half-time in their first fixture in October, at home to Everton, when Anthony Martial scored his first club goal since the 9–0 win over Southampton in February; however, Andros Townsend equalised for the visitors 20 minutes into the second half. Yerry Mina thought he had scored the winning goal in the 86th minute, but it was ruled out for offside by the video assistant referee (VAR).[16] Following the international break, United travelled to the King Power Stadium two weeks later to face Leicester City. Greenwood opened the scoring, but Youri Tielemans pulled Leicester level just after the half-hour, before Çağlar Söyüncü put them in front with 12 minutes to go in the match. Marcus Rashford levelled the scores again in his first appearance since the UEFA Euro 2020 final, but Jamie Vardy restored Leicester's lead a minute later and Patson Daka added a fourth in injury time to end United's record-breaking away Premier League unbeaten streak at 29.[17] The following week, United hosted arch-rivals Liverpool; Naby Keïta opened the scoring in the fifth minute, before Diogo Jota doubled the lead eight minutes later. Mohamed Salah scored two more before half-time to put United four goals down at the break for only the second time in a Premier League game, before completing his hat-trick five minutes into the second half. Pogba was then sent off for a two-footed tackle on Keïta as United suffered their worst ever home defeat to Liverpool.[18] With United on the verge of losing three league games in a row for the first time since December 2015, they travelled to play Tottenham Hotspur on 30 October. Playing with five at the back following the return of Varane from injury and with Cavani starting up front alongside Ronaldo, United won the match 3–0. Ronaldo opened the scoring six minutes before half-time before providing an assist for Cavani's first goal of the season almost 20 minutes into the second half, and Rashford completed the scoring four minutes from the end.[19]  
  November began with Manchester United playing host to their local rivals Manchester City at Old Trafford. Eric Bailly started in place of Varane, who had been injured in the Champions League match against Atalanta four days earlier, and it was the Ivorian defender who opened the scoring, albeit for the away side, as he put João Cancelo's cross into his own net. Bernardo Silva doubled City's lead just before half-time, when Bailly was substituted by Jadon Sancho. City remained the more likely of the two sides to score in the second half, but De Gea was able to keep them out for the remainder of the game, and United went into the international break nine points behind league leaders Chelsea as City won a league match against United for the first time since 24 April 2019.[20] On 20 November 2021, United suffered a 4–1 defeat to newly promoted Watford, leaving the Red Devils seventh in the table. United academy graduate Joshua King opened the scoring before De Gea saved a penalty from Ismaïla Sarr (as well as the original, which had to be retaken for encroachment); however, Sarr did eventually score just before half-time. Donny van de Beek scored his first goal of the season five minutes into the second half, but Maguire was sent off for a second yellow card midway through the period. As United searched for an equaliser, João Pedro and Emmanuel Dennis scored in added time to confirm Watford's victory.[21] It was announced the following day that Solskjær had left his role by mutual consent and that Michael Carrick had replaced him as caretaker manager.[22] In Carrick's first Premier League match in charge, which made him the first English manager to lead United in a league match since Ron Atkinson in November 1986, United visited Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. United opened the scoring after Jorginho miscontrolled a long clearance from Fernandes, allowing Sancho to take advantage of a two-on-one with Édouard Mendy and score his first league goal for United; however, Jorginho made up for his mistake from the penalty spot, after Aaron Wan-Bissaka had fouled Thiago Silva in the penalty area, and the match finished 1–1,[23] making Chelsea still seeking their first league win against United since November 2017.  
  United began December with a home encounter against old foes Arsenal. Emile Smith Rowe opened the scoring for Arsenal in the 13th minute with a volley from just outside the penalty area while De Gea lay injured in the middle of the goal after Fred had trodden on his ankle. After a VAR check, the goal was given after initially being disallowed. United equalised 31 minutes later when Fernandes scored for the first time in nearly three months. Ronaldo slotted home seven minutes after the break to bring United into the lead, scoring his 800th career goal in the process. Martin Ødegaard drew Arsenal level again two minutes later before giving away a penalty with a foul on Fred. Ronaldo sent the penalty down the middle of the goal to give United their first league win against Arsenal since 2018.[24] Carrick left the club immediately after the match, and Ralf Rangnick took over for the game against Crystal Palace on 5 December,[25] having been waiting to receive his work permit since his appointment on 29 November.[26] United won 1–0 thanks to a goal from Fred in the 77th minute,[27] and kept their first clean sheet at home in the league since beating West Ham 1–0 on 14 March. In their next match, United visited Norwich City and won 1–0 thanks to a penalty from Ronaldo in the 75th minute.[28] Due to a COVID-19 outbreak in the United camp, the club's training ground was closed on 13 December for 24 hours and the match against Brentford scheduled for the next day was postponed;[29] on 16 December, the home match against Brighton & Hove Albion was also postponed.[30] The team played their first match post-outbreak on 27 December away to Newcastle. Allan Saint-Maximin scored within seven minutes before Cavani equalised in the second half.[31] Three days later, United played the last Premier League match of 2021 against Burnley at home. Scott McTominay scored his first goal in nearly 11 months inside seven minutes. Ben Mee then scored an own goal after deflecting Sancho's shot slightly into the net. Ronaldo then scored the third goal three minutes before Aaron Lennon scored his first ever goal against United at the 38th minute as the hosts won 3–1 and finished the year in sixth place.[32]  
  United started the year at home to Wolverhampton. Phil Jones was included in the starting line-up, playing a senior match for the first time in 23 months. Ronaldo's header was disallowed for offside before João Moutinho scored the winner at the 82nd minute to earn Wolves their first win at Old Trafford since 9 February 1980, when Wolverhampton also won 1–0.[33] Twelve days later, they played away to Aston Villa. Fernandes scored twice to give United a 2–0 lead, before Jacob Ramsey scored the first on the 77th minute and assisted the equaliser for substitute Philippe Coutinho, who scored in the 81st minute to mark his Villa debut.[34] The postponed match against Brentford was held on 19 January; Anthony Elanga scored his first competitive goal of the season seven minutes before Greenwood scored his first league goal since the defeat at Leicester on 16 October. Fifteen minutes later, Rashford made his first goal in all competitions since scoring at Tottenham on 30 October, eight minutes before Ivan Toney scored the consolation for the hosts as United became the first ever club to win 300 Premier League away matches.[35][36] On 22 January, West Ham came to visit in United's final game prior to the Premier League winter break which took place during the non-European international break. Rashford scored the winning goal with just seconds of added time to go following an onside positioning and assist from Cavani.[37]  
  Visiting Burnley on 8 February, United went ahead at 12th minute via Varane but the goal was ruled out after Maguire fouled Jay Rodriguez in the build-up. Six minutes later, they went ahead for real as Paul Pogba scored his first goal of the season following a pass from Shaw. An own goal from Josh Brownhill was disallowed before Rodriguez then levelled the scores just two minutes into the second half with an assist from Wout Weghorst.[38] The next match saw Southampton's visit to Old Trafford for the first time since the 0–9 defeat a year and 10 days prior. Sancho opened the scoring in the first half but United conceded an early second-half goal again as Ché Adams levelled in the 48th minute.[39] In the midweek United played at home against Brighton, a match that was postponed from December. After a goalless first half, Ronaldo scored his first goal in the new year following an assist from McTominay. Fernandes later scored a very late goal – his first at home this year, sealing the win for the hosts.[40] Five days later, United visited Elland Road to face Roses rival Leeds. Maguire and Fernandes put the visitors two ahead in the first half before Rodrigo and Raphinha – the latter following an assist from former United player Daniel James – equalised via goals at the 53rd and 54th minutes. Two substitutes later scored the winners for Manchester United through Fred and Elanga as United scored more than three goals for the first time since September's win against Newcastle and the first time in the season that it was done away from home.[41] Six days later United hosted Watford but eventually got their first goalless draw of the season.[42]  
  United opened March with a visit to the City of Manchester Stadium for the Manchester derby. It took only five minutes for the league champions to score via Kevin De Bruyne. City academy graduate Sancho then equalised on his first match at City since his departure to Borussia Dortmund. However De Bruyne scored again six minutes later to hand City a half-time lead. Riyad Mahrez scored at 68th and 90th minutes to finish the match 4–1. This was the first time since 2018–19 league season that City won home and away against United, United's first defeat at City since 11 November 2018, and their heaviest away defeat against City since the 2013–14 season, when they were defeated by the same scoreline.[43] On the next match against Tottenham Hotspur, Ronaldo scored his only second ever hat-trick for United, and the first since January 2008. Each of his goals sandwiched Harry Kane's 35th-minute penalty and Maguire's 72nd-minute own goal.[44]  
  On 2 April, United faced Leicester at home. Kelechi Iheanacho struck first three minutes before Fred's equaliser.[45] The next week, a single goal from Anthony Gordon secured a 1–0 win for the relegation-threatened Everton.[46] Seven days later, Ronaldo scored two before goals from Kieran Dowell and Teemu Pukki equalised for Norwich. A Ronaldo free-kick secured his hat-trick and a 3–2 win.[47] The following week, United lost 4–0 to rivals Liverpool on the Tuesday – Luis Díaz and Sadio Mané scored once each and Salah scored two[48] – and 3–1 to Arsenal on the Saturday, in which Ronaldo scored his 100th Premier League goal; however, it was not enough to earn a point due to the goals from Nuno Tavares, Bukayo Saka and Granit Xhaka, as well as a missed penalty by Fernandes. United lost four straight away league matches for the first time since the 1980–81 season as a result.[49] The last match of the month saw Chelsea came to visit. Marcos Alonso scored for the world champions at the hour mark before Ronaldo equalised and salvaged one point for United. The draw extended United's unbeaten league run against Chelsea, with the last time Chelsea won over United in the league was on 5 November 2017. However, with a maximum of nine points from three remaining games having just earned 55, United were assured of a maximum 64 points, which was already their lowest in the Premier League era, earned in the 2013–14 season.[50] They also required to win all those three games to avoid a club record for the fewest wins in a Premier League season, set at 18 in 2016–17 and 2019–20.  
  In United's last home game of the season on 2 May against Brentford, Fernandes scored his 50th goal for the club after just nine minutes. Ronaldo scored a penalty before Varane sealed a 3–0 win with his first United goal.[51] The next match saw United suffer their worst ever defeat against Brighton & Hove Albion by a score of 4–0, which meant they failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League for the first time in three years. Moisés Caicedo, Marc Cucurella, Pascal Groß and Leandro Trossard scored one each without any reply as United broke the club record for fewest wins in a Premier League season.[52] On the last match of the season, former United player Wilfried Zaha scored the game's only goal for Crystal Palace as United lost at Palace for the first time since May 1991. With 16 wins, 58 points, and a goal difference of zero, this was United's worst season since recording 13 wins, 48 points, and a −1 goal difference in 1989–90, when they finished 13th. They conceded 57 goals during the season, the most since the 1978–79 season, when they conceded 63.[53]  
  ^ a b The Premier League matches away to Brentford on 14 December 2021 and at home to Brighton & Hove Albion on 18 December 2021 were postponed due to an outbreak of COVID-19 in the Manchester United squad.[29][30]  
  ^ The Premier League match away to Liverpool, originally scheduled for 20 March 2022, was postponed due to Liverpool's involvement in the FA Cup quarter-finals.[54]  
  ^ The Premier League match at home to Chelsea, originally scheduled for 15 May 2022, was brought forward due to Chelsea's involvement in the FA Cup final.[55]  
  Source: Premier League Rules for classification: 1) Points; 2) Goal difference; 3) Goals scored; 4) If the champions, relegated teams or qualified teams for UEFA competitions cannot be determined by rules 1 to 3, rules 4.1 to 4.3 are applied – 4.1) Points gained in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.2) Away goals scored in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.3) Play-offs[57] Notes:  
  ^ a b Since the winners of the 2021–22 FA Cup and the 2021–22 EFL Cup, Liverpool, qualified for the Champions League, the spot given to the FA Cup winners (Europa League group stage) was passed to the sixth-placed team and the spot given to the League Cup winners (Europa Conference League play-off round) was passed to the seventh-placed team.[56]  
  As a Premier League side, Manchester United entered the FA Cup in the third round proper. The draw took place on 6 December, and United were given a home draw with Aston Villa.[58] The match was played on 10 January 2022.[59] Villa had two goals disallowed for offside as Scott McTominay scored the only goal in a 1–0 win for United.[60] United drew Championship side Middlesbrough in the fourth round proper.[61] Cristiano Ronaldo missed a penalty five minutes before Jadon Sancho opened the scoring. A handball by former United academy player Duncan Watmore was ruled accidental by referee Anthony Taylor and video assistant referee Stuart Attwell per the new IFAB rule, meaning the 64th-minute equaliser from Matt Crooks, who also formerly a United academy player, stood. After going through extra time, United and Middlesbrough scored all their first seven penalties in the shoot-out, including one from former United defender Paddy McNair. Lee Peltier scored the eighth penalty before Anthony Elanga missed his and condemned United to their earliest FA Cup exit since the third round defeat in the 2013–14 season and the first time in the fourth round since 2011–12.[62] This was also United's first FA Cup elimination by a lower division side since their elimination by Leeds United, then a Championship side as well, in the 2009–10 third round and the first FA Cup defeat on penalties since the 2008–09 semi-finals, as they are yet to win an FA Cup match shoot-out. For Middlesbrough, this was their second consecutive cup triumph over United, having also won on penalties at Old Trafford in the 2015–16 League Cup fourth round.  
  As one of the seven English clubs competing in UEFA competitions in 2021–22, United entered the 2021–22 EFL Cup in the third round. The draw took place on 25 August and United were drawn at home to West Ham United; the match was played on 22 September, just three days after the two sides met in the league.[63][64] Manuel Lanzini scored the only goal of the game in the ninth minute, giving West Ham their first win at Old Trafford in all competitions since the last day of the 2006–07 FA Premier League season. This was Manchester United's first League Cup third round exit since the 2018–19 season.[65]  
  In the first match, United were away to Young Boys and took the lead in the 13th minute when Cristiano Ronaldo shot through the goalkeeper's legs after a cross from Bruno Fernandes. In the 35th minute, Aaron Wan-Bissaka was sent off for stamping on Christopher Martins' ankle. Moumi Ngamaleu equalised for Young Boys in the 66th minute, before a back-pass from Jesse Lingard in the 95th minute allowed Jordan Pefok to score the winner for the home side.[67] Wan-Bissaka was given a two-match suspension for his red card and missed the next game against Villarreal at Old Trafford, along with fellow defenders Shaw and Maguire.[68] Villarreal's Paco Alcácer opened the scoring in the 53rd minute, United's left-back Alex Telles – starting in place of Shaw – equalised with a long-range shot seven minutes later, scoring his first goal for United. Ronaldo, who broke the record for most Champions League appearances on the night, then scored the winning goal in the fifth minute of added time to give United their first ever win against Villarreal.[69]  
  Three weeks later, United hosted Atalanta for the first time at Old Trafford, and the away side were 2–0 up within the first half-hour, as Mario Pašalić scored in the 15th minute before Merih Demiral doubled their lead in the 28th. Marcus Rashford scored eight minutes after the interval to halve the deficit before captain Harry Maguire scored the equaliser with 15 minutes left in normal time. Ronaldo then scored the winner for the second match in a row, heading home Luke Shaw's cross nine minutes from time.[70] United again went behind early in the return match away to Atalanta, as Josip Iličić put the Italian side ahead in the 12th minute. Ronaldo equalised in first-half injury time, assisted by a backheel from Fernandes, making him the first Manchester United player to score in four consecutive Champions League matches since Ruud van Nistelrooy in 2003. Atalanta went back in front just over 10 minutes into the second half through Duván Zapata, only for Ronaldo to score another late goal to save a point for United.[71] United then visited Villarreal in caretaker manager Carrick's first game in charge. Ronaldo opened the scoring 12 minutes from time, before Jadon Sancho scored his first goal for the club as they secured qualification for the round of 16 for the first time since the 2018–19 season. Atalanta's 3–3 draw with Young Boys later that night secured top spot for United.[72] The final group game saw Rangnick change all 11 starters from the league game against Crystal Palace – including Ronaldo who was left out of the matchday squad, denying him the opportunity to become the first player to score in all six Champions League group stage matches for a second time. Rangnick named just seven of a possible 11 substitutes and gave three academy graduates their first-team debuts: Tom Heaton, Zidane Iqbal and Charlie Savage. Another academy graduate Mason Greenwood open the scoring inside nine minutes before Donny van de Beek made a mistake that allowed Fabian Rieder to equalise and end the match at 1–1.[73]  
  On 23 February, United visited the Metropolitano Stadium for the first time ever; the previous meeting between the two having been played at the now-demolished Vicente Calderón Stadium. João Félix opened the scoring for Atlético with a diving header past former Atlético goalkeeper David de Gea in the 7th minute, before Anthony Elanga scored the equaliser following a pass from Bruno Fernandes 10 minutes from time; this made Fernandes the first player in Champions League history to assist in six consecutive appearances for an English club, breaking the record held by David Beckham – also for United – since 1998, while Elanga became United's youngest ever goalscorer in the Champions League knockout stage at 19 years 302 days.[78] In the second leg at home, a 41st-minute header from Renan Lodi was enough to eliminate United in the round of 16 for the first time since the 2017–18 season.[79]  
  It is the first season since 2010–11 without goalkeeper David de Gea and defender Phil Jones, who left the club when their contracts expired. With the departures of De Gea and Jones, United were initially without a Premier League winner in their squad for the first time since the competition's inaugural season in 1992–93, as well as without a player who played under Alex Ferguson for the first time since 1985;[1] however, the re-signing of Jonny Evans, who won three Premier League titles with the club between 2006 and 2015, meant that was no longer the case.[2]  
  On 27 March 2023, United announced a tour of the United States, with friendly matches against Wrexham – who are co-owned by actors Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney and who also had former United goalkeeper Ben Foster in their squad – in San Diego,[3] and Borussia Dortmund in Las Vegas.[4] On 12 May, the club announced their third and fourth pre-season friendlies in the US against fierce rivals Arsenal in New York City,[5] and in Houston against Real Madrid, which will be played one day after Wrexham game.[6] A fifth friendly, the first based in the UK, against Lyon in Edinburgh was also added to the pre-season calendar.[7] On 25 May, the club announced a friendly against Roses rivals and EFL Championship club Leeds United in Oslo.[8] A seventh match, against Athletic Bilbao in Dublin, was announced on 13 June.[9] On 29 June, the club announced a home friendly against French club Lens, to be played the day before the match against Athletic Bilbao.[10]  
  United won their first match of pre-season against Leeds 2–0, thanks to second-half goals from substitutes Noam Emeran and Joe Hugill,[11] while Donny van de Beek's goal against Lyon gave them their second win in Edinburgh.[12] In the first game of the United States tour, first-half goals from newly appointed captain Bruno Fernandes and Jadon Sancho gave United a 2–0 win over Arsenal; they also won the post-match exhibition penalty shoot-out 5–3.[13] With their match against Real Madrid scheduled for Houston the next day, United fielded a team made up largely of under-21 players against Wrexham on 25 July. They went 2–0 down in the first half, though Marc Jurado pulled a goal back on the stroke of half-time; however, Dan Gore was sent off early in the second half and a third Wrexham goal completed a 3–1 defeat for United.[14] They then suffered a second loss in as many days when goals from Jude Bellingham and Joselu gave Real Madrid a 2–0 win in Houston; newly signed goalkeeper André Onana made his debut in the game, playing the full 90 minutes.[15] Manchester United's tour of the United States ended with a 3–2 defeat against Borussia Dortmund at the Allegiant Stadium in Las Vegas on 31 July. Diogo Dalot put United ahead in the 24th minute, but Donyell Malen scored twice in two minutes just before half-time to give Dortmund the lead. Antony levelled the scores before Youssoufa Moukoko secured the win for the Germans.[16]  
  The Reds returned to winning ways with a 3–1 comeback win over Lens at Old Trafford. Florian Sotoca put the visitors ahead after chipping Onana from the edge of the centre circle in the first half, before Marcus Rashford, Antony and Casemiro scored in the second period to turn the game around for United.[17] The following day, a second string United side drew 1–1 with Athletic Bilbao in Dublin. The La Liga team scored first through Nico Williams, but an added time equaliser from Facundo Pellistri meant that United ended their pre-season campaign with a draw.[18]  
  The league season began with a home win against Wolverhampton Wanderers on 14 August. After a scoreless first half, Raphaël Varane scored the game's only goal with a 76th-minute header. Named in the starting line-up, Mason Mount and André Onana made their debuts for United.[20] Five days later, United suffered an away defeat to Tottenham Hotspur. Pape Matar Sarr opened the scoring for the home side in the 49th minute, and an own goal from Lisandro Martínez doubled their lead seven minutes from the end.[21] United then hosted Nottingham Forest the following weekend, coming into the match on a 30-game unbeaten run at home; however, that streak was put in jeopardy as United conceded two goals in the opening five minutes. Christian Eriksen pulled one back in the first half, before Casemiro and Bruno Fernandes secured the comeback win with a goal each either side of a second-half red card for Forest's Joe Worrall.[22]  
  The month of September started with a loss away to Arsenal. Marcus Rashford struck first, but Martin Ødegaard levelled the score 35 seconds after restart of the game. In the second half, a VAR check saw an Arsenal penalty claim overturned and another check led to an effort by Alejandro Garnacho being ruled out as offside. The Gunners then struck twice in injury time to win the match.[23]  
  Updated to match(es) played on 17 March 2024. Source: Premier League Rules for classification: 1) Points; 2) Goal difference; 3) Goals scored; 4) If the champions, relegated teams or qualified teams for UEFA competitions cannot be determined by rules 1 to 3, rules 4.1 to 4.3 are applied – 4.1) Points gained in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.2) Away goals scored in head-to-head record between such teams; 4.3) Play-offs[24] Notes:  
  ^ This match, originally scheduled for 16 March 2024, was rescheduled due to United's involvement in the FA Cup quarter-finals.  
  ^ This match, originally scheduled for 20 April 2024, is set to be rescheduled due to United's involvement in the FA Cup semi-finals.  
  ^ The winners of the 2023–24 FA Cup (Chelsea, Coventry City, Manchester City, or Manchester United) also qualify for the Europa League league stage. If the FA Cup winners qualify for the Champions League via league position, their Europa League spot will be passed to the highest-placed team below the Champions League qualifying positions.  
  ^ As winners of the 2023–24 EFL Cup, Liverpool qualify for the Conference League play-off round. If they qualify for the Champions League or Europa League via league position, the Conference League spot will be passed to the highest-placed team that does not qualify for European competitions.  
  As a Premier League side, United entered the 2023–24 FA Cup in the third round and were drawn away to Wigan Athletic,[25] with the match to be played on 8 January 2024.[26] United won 2–0 thanks to a long-range strike from Diogo Dalot in the first half, followed by a Bruno Fernandes penalty. They were then drawn against either Newport County or Eastleigh in the fourth round.[27][28] Newport were confirmed as their opponents when they beat Eastleigh 3–1 in a replay on 16 January 2024.[29] On 28 January, United won at Rodney Parade 4–2 courtesy of goals from Fernandes, Kobbie Mainoo, Antony and Rasmus Højlund.[30] On the same day, Bristol City or Nottingham Forest were drawn as their next opponents, with the match taking place on 28 February.[31] On 7 February, Nottingham Forest were confirmed as United's next opponents after their 5–3 win on penalties.[32] United won at City Ground 1–0 thanks to a late effort from Casemiro.[33]  
  With Liverpool's 3–0 win over Southampton in the fifth round, United were drawn against their rivals in the quarter-finals.[34] The tie was played on 17 March. United took an early lead thanks to Scott McTominay, but going into half time, goals from Alexis Mac Allister and Mohamed Salah saw Liverpool take a 2–1 lead. Antony scored a late equaliser to take the match into extra time, although Rashford missed the chance to score an injury-time winner. Near the end of the first half of extra time, Harvey Elliot gave Liverpool the lead, but in the second half, Rashford equalised to make the score 3–3. In injury time, Amad Diallo scored the winning goal, and was sent off for taking his shirt off in the celebrations as he was given a yellow card prior to scoring. [35]  
  United were drawn against Coventry City in the semi-finals. They will face each other at Wembley Stadium on 21 April.  
  ^ Garnacho played with shirt number 49 in August 2023 matches.[41][42]  
  ^ Reported as £55 million, plus £5 million in add-ons[43]  
  ^ Evans signed for Manchester United on a short-term contract of unspecified length on 18 July. On 1 September, he signed a one-year contract with the club.[45]  
  ^ Manchester United triggered a break clause to end Reguilón's loan on 4 January 2024.[94]  
  ^ McNeill returned early from his season-long loan at Stevenage on 3 January 2024.[100]  
  ^ Carreras returned early from his season-long loan at Granada on 14 January 2024.[102]  
  ^ Marshall, Adam (8 September 2023). "Tuanzebe links up with Town". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 8 September 2023.  
  ^ Marshall, Adam (15 January 2024). "Hannibal heads out on loan". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 15 January 2024.  
  ^ Marshall, Adam (23 January 2024). "Gore goes out on loan". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 23 January 2024.  
  Team News  
  Manchester United ended Liverpool's quest for a quadruple of trophies in Jurgen Klopp's final season after Amad Diallo's winner edged a thrilling FA Cup quarter-final 4-3 after extra-time.... more »  
  Virgil van Dijk says the intensity of Liverpool's bitter rivalry with Manchester United will make Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final a major test for his quadruple chasers.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp believes Mohamed Salah is ready to wreak more damage on Manchester United in Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final as the Egyptian gets back up to speed after a lengthy hamstring injury.... more »  
  Everton paid for conceding two first-half penalties at Old Trafford as Manchester United bounced back to winning ways to keep their Champions League hopes for next season alive with a 2-0 victory on Saturday.... more »  
  Erik ten Hag believes he may have won up to three-quarters of his first 100 matches at Manchester United were it not for a punishing injury list that he said no team could cope with.... more »  
  Accessibility links  
  Golden years: The tale of Manchester United's 20 titles  
  By Chris BevanBBC Sport  
  Last updated on 22 April 201322 April 2013.From the section Football  
  Some have been won at a canter, others have gone to the wire. But there is a story behind each of Manchester United's title triumphs, from their first in 1908 to their 20th, secured on Monday evening.  
  When Sir Alex Ferguson won his first and United's eighth crown in 1993, Liverpool led the way with 18 titles but United also trailed Arsenal (10) and Everton (9). Now they are out on their own in front, while Liverpool have not added to their tally.  
  "It's not so much passing Liverpool. It's more important that United are the best team in the country in terms of winning titles," said Ferguson after United had won their 19th title in 2011. Achieving that goal did not affect his appetite for more glory.  
  For six of United's successes, the title race has gone down to the final day. There was no dramatic finish for Ferguson this time, but this season was not the first to have been settled so early on.  
  United share the record (along with Preston, Sunderland and Aston Villa) for the biggest margin of victory under the system of two points for a win (11 points in 1955/56) and hold it outright since it switched to three in 1981 (18 points in 1999/00).  
  There have been two league and FA Cup Doubles in 1994 and 1996, one Treble (1999) and many more near misses during campaigns built on brilliance or belligerence, and often both at the same time.  
  From their early triumphs under Ernest Mangnall to the great teams of different eras under Sir Matt Busby and now Ferguson, BBC Sport looks at the men and the moments of magic that have made the difference.  
  Key: EC = European Cup CL = Champions League UE = Uefa Cup FAC = FA Cup LC = League Cup  
  1: 1907-08 - The first title, with hints of blue  
  L 9  
  How it was won: With thanks to their neighbours. Ernest Mangnall's team was built around four men who joined from Manchester City - Billy Meredith (left), Herbert Burgess, Jimmy Bannister and Sandy Turnbull - after being suspended by the Football Association in a scandal over illegal payments.  
  What they said: "Our side had been strengthened by the inclusion of four City players who had been sacked for impropriety. The great Billy Meredith was one such player.  
  "We created a record in the number of points obtained. The club were not allowed at the time to give us a bonus, but to show their appreciation the directors arranged a continental tour for us to Austria and Hungary." (Defender Charlie Robert in the Manchester Saturday Post)  
  2: 1910-11 - Opening the Old Trafford account  
  Aston Villa went top on goal average on the penultimate weekend after beating United 4-2 at Villa Park. Villa also had a game in hand, but could only draw it at Blackburn, meaning the title race went to the last game - when they lost to Liverpool at Anfield and United thumped third-placed Sunderland.  
  What they said: "Sunderland scored first and the scoreboard at Old Trafford showed Liverpool were winning 2-0. The news was the tonic we required. In the next 10 minutes we paralysed Sunderland and scored four goals.  
  "At the end of the game our supporters rushed across the ground in front of the stand to wait for the final news from Liverpool. Suddenly a tremendous cheer rent the air and was renewed again and again and we knew we were the champions once again." (Defender Charlie Robert)  
  3: 1951-52 - Busby ends the 41-year wait  
  L 8  
  How it was won: The 'nearly men' held their nerve. United had finished second in four of the previous five seasons under their ambitious manager Matt Busby but his first title, and United's first for 41 years, finally arrived on the last day of the season.  
  Arsenal needed to beat United by seven goals to snatch it from their grasp but that never looked looked like happening, especially when injury reduced the Gunners to 10 men after 24 minutes. They finished with nine and Jack Rowley (pictured) scored a hat-trick as United coasted home 6-1.  
  What they said: "Johnny Carey, Johnny Aston, Allen Chilton, Stan Pearson, Jack Rowley and the rest of the 'old gang'. You set a high standard of skill, sportsmanship and team play. You were an example and a challenge to the youngsters who have so brilliantly succeeded you." (Busby speaking in 1957 when he described this title win, the last hurrah of his ageing post-war team, as the inspiration for his younger players)  
  4: 1955-56 - The Busby Babes come of age  
  This swashbuckling side, largely home-grown and with an average age of 22, stormed to the title, remaining unbeaten at Old Trafford and dropping only three points in 21 games there.  
  A 14-game unbeaten streak from February until the end of the season gave them a record winning-margin, the biggest of the 20th century under the system of two points for a win. That summer, Busby went against the wishes of the Football League and ensured the club entered the European Cup.  
  What they said: "One of the secrets of United's success is that nearly all of us grew up as boy footballers. The Manchester United way is the only way we know." (Defender and two-time title-winning captain Roger Byrne, extract from the Official Illustrated History of MUFC)  
  5: 1956-57 - The first treble bid falls short  
  L 6  
  How it was won: United were chasing glory on three fronts in the spring of 1957. After a 3-1 defeat by Real Madrid at the Bernabeu in the first leg of their European Cup semi-final on 11 April, three league wins in nine days saw them retain their title.  
  That meant United could field their reserves in an Easter Monday win over Reading but they went out of Europe after a thrilling 2-2 draw with Madrid in the return on 25 April.  
  The Treble was gone, and they missed the Double in controversial fashion, losing the FA Cup final to Aston Villa after keeper Ray Wood suffered a fractured cheekbone in a challenge from Peter McParland, meaning United played for an hour with 10 men.  
  What they said: "We were ruthless you know. And we had this dream. To do it perfectly. We'd win everything but with proper elegance. We'd play the sweetest football. We'd have great players. Poetic. Eleven grown men chasing a ball. Very poetic." (United chief coach Jimmy Murphy)  
  6: 1964-65 - Busby rebuilds again  
  It took time for United to recover from the 1958 Munich disaster that shattered the club, but Busby built another title-winning team, led by the 'Holy Trinity' of Denis Law (pictured), George Best and Bobby Charlton, who set the template for a dazzling brand of attacking football. Success came with a swagger.  
  They faced a long, hard fight for the title, though. United beat Arsenal in their penultimate game, while their nearest rivals Leeds could only draw at Birmingham.  
  That meant only a 17-0 last day defeat by Aston Villa could deny United the title on goal average. In the end they lost 2-1 and won the title by 0.686 of a goal.  
  What they said: "Although our defensive record was good, we never lost our attractiveness as a team because we were so deadly on the break." (United midfielder Nobby Stiles)  
  7: 1966-67 - On the cusp of European glory  
  L 6  
  How it was won: By what would become one of United's trademarks - another strong finish to the season.  
  A second-half surge of form saw United stay unbeaten from Boxing Day onwards and their biggest win of the season, a 6-1 thrashing of West Ham on 6 May, saw them clinch the title in style.  
  What they said: "The most important factor behind our championship success was signing Alex Stepney." (Busby on the keeper he bought from Chelsea for £55,000 in September 1966)  
  "It was the first thing I noticed, coming in as a Londoner. There was a seriousness and a hardness about northern teams, especially United, that I hadn't found in southern teams. United had great players but they had that steely edge of determination with it." (Goalkeeper Alex Stepney)  
  8: 1992-93 - First Premier League triumph  
  L 6  
  How it was won: On the golf course, inspired by Eric Cantona. The Premier League era began and, with it, the end of United's long wait for an eighth title.  
  Aston Villa pushed them hard but faltered in the run-in. On 2 May, manager Alex Ferguson was playing golf when a stranger approached him on the 17th green to say "excuse me Mr Ferguson, you are the champions. Oldham have won at Villa".  
  The players partied all night at defender Steve Bruce's house and the celebrations continued during their win over Blackburn the following evening.  
  What they said: "The club is alive. It's as if the good old days were back and the major factor, as far as I'm concerned, is the Frenchman. (Ferguson, speaking about his recent signing Eric Cantona on 1 January 1993)  
  "It was like a huge burden had been lifted from the fans. At last, after 26 years, United would no longer be ridiculed as the massive club that couldn't take the title." (Defender Gary Pallister describes Old Trafford before the Blackburn game)  
  9: 1993-94 - The first double  
  United did not lose a league game between September and March and led by 16 points in January. But a run of one win in five games allowed Blackburn to close the gap, which went down to three points when they beat United with seven games to go.  
  That was as close as things got at the top, however. Five wins saw United home and they went on to complete their first Double by beating Chelsea in the FA Cup final.  
  What they said: "When we lost out to Leeds in 1992, some people wondered if we would ever win the title at all. For the United teams that followed our first title, it was easier because the burden had been removed and they could get on with playing and winning without having to worry about history all the time." (United forward Brian McClair)  
  "Au Revoir Cantona and Man United.. come back when you've won 18" (A banner on the Kop when United drew at Anfield in January)  
  10: 1995-96 - The one they won with kids  
  L 6  
  How it was won: Speaking on Match of the Day on the opening day of the season after Manchester United lost 3-1 to Aston Villa, host Des Lynam said: "United were scarcely recognisable from the team we've known over the last couple of seasons, what's going on?"  
  Those kids went on to do the double. Newcastle were 12 points clear in January but imploded and their manager cracked after Ferguson suggested other teams tried harder against United than against Newcastle.  
  What they said: "He went down in my estimation after that and I'll tell him this - we're still fighting for this title. He has got to go to Middlesbrough and get something. And I tell you, honestly, I would love it if we beat them now, absolutely love it." (Newcastle boss Kevin Keegan, ahead of the final weekend)  
  United beat Boro 3-0 to secure the title.  
  11: 1996-97 - Au revoir, Cantona  
  L 5  
  How it was won: Heavy defeats by Newcastle and Southampton early in the season were forgotten as a long unbeaten run put the season back on track.  
  A fourth title in five seasons was secured without kicking a ball on 6 May when Liverpool lost to Wimbledon and Newcastle were held by West Ham.  
  What they said: "He has exceptional ability, an inspiration - simply a great player. And you have got to put this team up there with the best of any era. It has so much talent and ambition and so many good young players coming through." (Sir Bobby Charlton on Eric Cantona's decision to retire at the end of the season, and the team he left behind)  
  "We learnt from Eric's actions, the way he played and trained. Gary and Philip Neville, Nicky Butt, Paul Scholes, David Beckham and myself stay behind after training and just practise free-kicks and shooting.  
  "These are things we've always done because that is what Eric always used to do." (Ryan Giggs on Cantona)  
  12: 1998-99 - The Treble  
  L 3  
  How it was won: Winning back the league title from Arsenal was the first leg of United's historic treble.  
  The Gunners pushed them all the way to the final day when Andrew Cole came off the bench to score a lobbed winner (left) as United came from behind to beat Spurs and edge out Arsene Wenger's men.  
  He was not the only United substitute to have an impact that year, as Bayern Munich found out in the Champions League final. The FA Cup was also bound for Old Trafford, making this the greatest season in the club's history.  
  What they said: "The most important thing was the spirit of this team. They just never gave in, they don't know how to. A manager can talk about tactics but if the players can't bring that inner beast out of them then he is wasting his time. They've got that beast inside them and they found it when it mattered. People will never forget this team. My 1994 double winners had mental toughness but this crop is the best. They have proved that, they are legends." (Sir Alex Ferguson, knighted following the Treble success)  
  History, a record points haul and the biggest winning margin in top-flight history, demonstrates otherwise.  
  Their chief rivals Leeds and Arsenal dropped points while they were away and United, who had enjoyed a 26-day break from league action, ended up running away with the title.  
  What they said: "The trip gave us a break mentally. We came back refreshed in our legs and heads." (United defender Mikael Silvestre, whose side won 11 and lost only one of their last 16 league games after getting back from Brazil)  
  "The league was organised for United this season. Of course this was a major factor in the title." (Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger)  
  14: 2000-01 - The first hat-trick of titles  
  L 6  
  How it was won: At a canter, again. United went top when they beat Leicester 3-0 in October and stayed there. The title was all but sealed with 6-1 win over nearest rivals Arsenal in February, with Dwight Yorke (left) scoring a 22-minute hat-trick.  
  In fact, United could afford to lose their last three games and still finish 10 points clear.  
  What they said: Before the season was over, Ferguson announced he intended to leave United at the end of the following campaign, saying: "I'm really looking forward to next year. I've got a great bunch of players who have shown over the years they have a special character.  
  "I want to go out with my head held high, knowing I have completed 16 years at the club regardless of what's happened in the background. The players want to be the first to win four titles in a row and I want to help them."  
  Arsenal won the league by 10 points in 2001-02, but Ferguson remained at the helm.  
  15: 2002-03 - Another fightback  
  L 5  
  How it was won: From behind. United were six points behind leaders Arsenal in mid-September.  
  Ferguson responded: "My greatest challenge is not what is happening right at this moment, my greatest challenge was knocking Liverpool right off their [insert swear word] perch. And you can print that."  
  Typically, United came good, taking the title by winning 14 of their last 17 games.  
  What they said: "Even in the most successful campaigns, there always seemed to be a game when it went horribly wrong. A nightmare match that reminded you that success never comes easy. It was as if we needed to lose a game badly to teach us that we couldn't afford to lose any more. That season it came at Maine Road in November when we lost 3-1 to Manchester City." (Defender Gary Neville)  
  16: 2006-07 - Meeting the challenge of Chelsea  
  L 5  
  How it was won: By attrition, in a two-horse race between United and champions Chelsea, chasing a hat-trick of titles.  
  Under Jose Mourinho, Chelsea were not about to give up their crown easily but their draw with Bolton meant United took a five-point lead into the last three games of the season, one they would not relinquish.  
  What they said: "This title is the team's greatest achievement to date simply because it is a relatively new team and really it's their first attempt at winning a title together. That's why we're all encouraged. I think this team will get better." (Sir Alex Ferguson)  
  "From last year our style has changed. Cristiano Ronaldo, Louis Saha and Wayne Rooney started playing up front together and the speed in our play, what I call the Manchester United way, returned. It's speed. Quick, counter-attacking football. Defending one minute and then ball in the back of the net 10 seconds later. We lost that for some reason over the previous couple of years but we're getting back to it." (Gary Neville)  
  17: 2007-08 - Ronaldo reigns supreme  
  L 5  
  How it was won: Another desperately tight triumph. Cristiano Ronaldo scored the most goals but others played their part, like Carlos Tevez's equaliser at Blackburn or Ben Foster's heroic goalkeeping display at Derby.  
  That meant United kept their noses ahead, just. On the last day of the season Chelsea needed to beat Bolton and hope United did not win at Wigan. In the end, the Blues could only draw and United won 2-0.  
  What they said: "A lot of how good Cristiano is down to how successful United are as a complete team unit. They can attack with five or six players. When they attack, they are the most difficult team to play against right now. Chelsea are more machine-like - they will grind out results whereas United will run over you." (Blackburn keeper Brad Friedel, speaking in April 2008)  
  This title left United one short of Liverpool's total of 18 and, when asked whether they could beat it, Ferguson said: "I think it will come. This side is young. It's developing all the time. There are plenty of years left in them and they will do it in their own time."  
  18: 2008-09 - Another hat-trick  
  L 4  
  How it was won: With a lot of help from goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar, who went 14 games without conceding a goal.  
  That was not the only hot streak United enjoyed. Eleven wins on the trot from Boxing Day saw them hold off a determined Liverpool side, who won 4-1 at Old Trafford and lost only twice all season. United became the first team to win three consecutive English top-flight titles on two separate occasions - and also equalled the Reds' total tally.  
  What they said: Asked just before United clinched the title with a draw at Arsenal if the best team always wins the league, Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez said: "It just means they have more points.  
  "If United win the league it means they will have more points, clearly, but there are some very good teams in different positions in the table. To say who is the best at one moment is not easy."  
  "The greatest challenge now is to try to win it next year because that would be something special. A 19th title would give us a special place in the club's history." (Sir Alex Ferguson)  
  19: 2010-11 - The record breaker  
  Champions Chelsea were five points clear at the end of October before dropping 20 points in their next nine games. United stayed unbeaten until 5 February,a run of 24 matches, but only finished off the Blues' challenge in May, when they beat them 2-1 to move six points clear with two games to go.  
  A 1-1 draw with Blackburn at Ewood Park saw them over the line, and secured outright the record for most titles.  
  What they said: "It is a great achievement by the team and manager to overhaul our nearest rivals during the 70s and 80s. Fifteen, 20 years ago you would never have thought it." (Long-serving winger Ryan Giggs)  
  "You have to look at the league and look how strong it is. Our rivals have dropped unexpected points too. It is not fair to say it is a bad United team or a bad league. This is a hard league to win." (Sir Alex Ferguson)  
  20: 2012-13 - Winning it back, again  
  L 4  
  How it was won: United lost the title to neighbours Manchester City in the last seconds of the previous campaign but they won it back in far less dramatic circumstances.  
  When City dropped points, United kept on winning. Initially they did it the hard way, coming from behind, but by the New Year they had found their rhythm - rarely hitting top gear but picking up victory after victory to keep moving towards title number 20. By mid-February they had built an unassailable lead.  
  What they said: "The only thing I said to them at the start of the season was don't lose it on goal difference again. It has been a big turn over from last year and I have to congratulate our players on their consistency." (Sir Alex Ferguson, who has now won 13 titles as United boss)  
  "United have been a machine who have kept killing. We haven't. They were always going to come back strongly, and we intended to do the same. It's just how the season panned out." (Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart)  
  About Manchester United  
  Manchester United live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Manchester United next match  
  Manchester United will play the next match against Brentford on Mar 30, 2024, 8:00:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Brentford vs Manchester United live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Manchester United matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Manchester United previous match  
  Manchester United previous match was against Liverpool in FA Cup, the match ended with result 4 - 3 (Manchester United won the match).  
  Manchester United fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Manchester United scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Manchester United performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Manchester United matches.  
  Current Manchester United players  
  Forward: Marcus Rashford, Rasmus Højlund Midfielder: Bruno Fernandes, Mason Mount, Scott McTominay Defender: Raphaël Varane, Luke Shaw, Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Victor Lindelöf, Jonny Evans Goalkeeper: André Onana, Altay Bayındır Unknown: Casemiro, Antony, Alejandro Garnacho, Lisandro Martínez, Anthony Martial, Christian Eriksen, Sofyan Amrabat, Harry Maguire, Amad Diallo, Kobbie Mainoo, Diogo Dalot, Tyrell Malacia, Shola Shoretire, Tom Heaton  
  The current Manchester United roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Manchester United top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  The height of the column represents match difficulty at the time, based on odds.  
  About Manchester United  
  Manchester United live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Manchester United next match  
  Manchester United will play the next match against Brentford on Mar 30, 2024, 8:00:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Brentford vs Manchester United live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Manchester United matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Manchester United previous match  
  Manchester United previous match was against Liverpool in FA Cup, the match ended with result 4 - 3 (Manchester United won the match).  
  Manchester United fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Manchester United scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Manchester United performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Manchester United matches.  
  Current Manchester United players  
  Forward: Marcus Rashford, Rasmus Højlund Midfielder: Bruno Fernandes, Mason Mount, Scott McTominay Defender: Raphaël Varane, Luke Shaw, Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Victor Lindelöf, Jonny Evans Goalkeeper: André Onana, Altay Bayındır Unknown: Casemiro, Antony, Alejandro Garnacho, Lisandro Martínez, Anthony Martial, Christian Eriksen, Sofyan Amrabat, Harry Maguire, Amad Diallo, Kobbie Mainoo, Diogo Dalot, Tyrell Malacia, Shola Shoretire, Tom Heaton  
  The current Manchester United roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Manchester United top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  Live scores service at Sofascore livescore offers sports live scores, results and tables. Follow your favourite teams right here live! Live score on Sofascore.com livescore is automatically updated and you don't need to refresh it manually. With adding games you want to follow in "My games" following your matches livescores, results and statistics will be even more simple.  
  Thank you for using Footballcritic. Start by talking about your audience, not yourself.  
  A Complete Guide to Manchester City: Origin, History  
  FC  
  A Complete Guide to Manchester City: Origin, History, and Winning Rate  
  Manchester City Football Club, often referred to as Man City, is a popular football club founded in 1880 as St. Mark's Church.  
  11:08am on Wednesday 8th September 2021 By Team FC  
  Manchester City Football Club, often referred to as Man City, is a popular football club founded in 1880 as St. Mark's Church. The club was founded by Arthur Connell, the rector of St Mark's Church, and his daughter, Anna Connell. It underwent several name changes as Gorton FC and Ardwick AFC before settling on Manchester City in 1894.  
  The early years of the club were marked by regional success. Manchester won their first major honor, the FA Cup, in 1904. However, it wasn't until the late 1960s that the club enjoyed a golden era under the leadership of manager Joe Mercer and captain Tony Book. During this time, it clinched the First Division title, FA Cup, League Cup, as well as the Cup Winners' Cup in 1970.  
  The club quickly rose to its current status under the management of individuals like Roberto Mancini and, later, Pep Guardiola. Under Guardiola, the team secured back-to-back Premier League titles in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019. The 2020-2021 season saw another Premier League victory along with the UEFA Champions League title. This further solidified Manchester City's status among Europe's elite clubs.  
  Statistics-wise, according to a 2022/2023 report, City won 44 of 61 games in all competitions, giving it a robust win percentage of just over 72%. It also remains unbeatable in Champions Leagues and the FA Cup.  
  The current Manchester City owner is Sheikh Mansour, an Abu Dhabi billionaire who bought Manchester City for a reported £210 million in 2008. He has invested hundreds of millions more into the club and the community surrounding the club ever since.  
  While Sheikh Mansour’s early reign saw great financial losses due to player recruitment and building better facilities, the club has turned a profit and revenue has increased in recent years. The Deloitte Football Money League noted that City are the sixth richest football club in the world, with a revenue of over £460 million.  
  The current Manchester City football stadium was originally called the City of Manchester Stadium or the Eastlands before it was renamed the Etihad Stadium, the name it is known today. It was built for the Commonwealth Games held in Manchester in 2002.  
  The club moved from Maine Road to the Etihad in 2003 after converting it into a sole football stadium. The Manchester City stadium capacity is currently 55,097 and is expected to increase to 61,000 with the upcoming expansion in the North Stand.  
  Betting for Manchester City  
  With City becoming a high-profile team, it is a popular team to bet on. Manchester City transfer odds are incredibly popular to bet on, particularly in the close season. Betting on fixtures is common, particularly for important matches such as Manchester City vs. Manchester United.  
  If fans want to try their hands at betting, they can do so via an English Premier League (EPL) bookie. A bookmaker, turf accountant, or bookie accepts and pays out bets on sports. Keeping up with recent technological advances, there has also been a rise in crypto accepting EPL bookie.  
  Aside from being able to show their support for their favorite club, betting with crypto offers various advantages for fans. Fans are able to maintain complete anonymity with no third party being allowed access to their private information. Furthermore, betting with crypto allows payouts to be made instantly without the need to wait for lengthy processing times and complex withdrawal processes.  
  Latest news  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Watford and Leeds on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Blackburn and Ipswich on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Sheffield Wednesday and Swansea on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Southampton and Middlesbrough on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the upcoming Lincoln City vs Leyton Orient EFL League One game on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between QPR and Birmingham on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Accessibility links  
  Manchester United 2-0 Everton: Two first-half penalties earn Erik ten Hag's side victory  
  By Simon StoneBBC Sport at Old Trafford  
  Last updated on 9 March 20249 March 2024.From the section Premier League1187  
  Manchester United ended their two-match losing streak as first-half penalties from Bruno Fernandes and Marcus Rashford were enough to defeat Everton at Old Trafford.  
  In a strange game, in which Everton became the fifth side in six Premier League games to have at least 20 shots against Erik ten Hag's side, the visitors were made to pay for their profligacy and reckless defending.  
  Skipper James Tarkowski and fellow defender Ben Godfrey both caught Alejandro Garnacho with rash challenges.  
  Fernandes took the first spot-kick and beat Jordan Pickford with a precise low shot to the England keeper's left corner.  
  However, the United skipper passed on responsibility to Rashford on the second occasion. It seemed a needless risk but Rashford kept his nerve to send Pickford the wrong way for his seventh goal of the season.  
  After defeats by Fulham and Manchester City, the result pushed United to within three points of fifth-placed Tottenham, although Ange Postecoglou's men do have two matches in hand.  
  And, after Thursday's European results, fifth is not as sure of securing Champions League qualification next term as it previously appeared to be.  
  The loss continued an awful run for Everton, who have now picked up just five points from 11 games and with next week's Merseyside derby called off because of Liverpool's FA Cup commitments, Sean Dyche's men could find themselves in the relegation zone during the international break.  
  Garnarcho shines  
  No matter how this season turns out for Manchester United, it will be notable as the one where Garnacho started to turn promise into effective performances.  
  The Argentine is still only 19 but he is fast becoming United's most potent offensive threat.  
  There are times when he fails to make the right decision as when he somehow failed to fashion a shooting chance from a Scott McTominay through ball in the final minute of the opening period despite initially running clean through.  
  But his pace and balance unsettles defenders and in luring Tarkowski and Godfrey into rash first-half challenges, Garnacho ensured the home side went into the interval with a healthy lead, rather than finding themselves behind as could easily have been the case.  
  United were guilty of wasting further chances after the break, with Garnacho one of the culprits as he blazed over after sprinting clear into the penalty area.  
  Jordan Pickford had produced a superb early one-handed save to turn away a Fernandes free-kick and he needed to be alert to prevent Victor Lindelof stabbing home a third after a melee in the six-yard box.  
  Everton's strife  
  Having suffered a six-point deduction for financial breaches already this season, the time is drawing near when Everton will have to defend themselves in a second hearing.  
  They can only hope some leniency is applied for the fact two of the periods in question were assessed in the first case as on this evidence, they will struggle to get out of trouble if they suffer a similar-sized sanction.  
  The fight they showed to drag themselves out of the bottom three when the initial 10-point punishment was handed down has diluted.  
  Five points from 11 games in the middle of the season is form that would land any team in bother and Everton lack the quality to create a belief substantive change can be achieved.  
  In the opening period at least, they had better chances than their hosts.  
  But Dwight McNeil, Jack Harrison and Amadou Onana both lacked composure when they had the goal at their mercy, meaning Onana's only save was to deny United old-boy James Garner, whose shot was heading for the far corner.  
  Everton's fortunes didn't improve. At one point substitute Dominic Calvert-Lewin rose to meet a header on the edge of the six-yard box, only to send it straight back across goal. Lewis Dobbin reacted and also tried to score, only to send the ball back across where it had come from, with Onana not called upon on either occasion.  
  It was comic book stuff but it is no laughing matter for Everton, who are in big trouble on the pitch, let alone off it.  
  Post update  
  Full Time  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United. Conceded by André Gomes.  
  90'+3'  
  Post update  
  Attempt blocked. Bruno Fernandes (Manchester United) right footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.  
  90'+1'  
  Post update  
  Attempt saved. Diogo Dalot (Manchester United) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Bruno Fernandes.  
  90'+1'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United. Conceded by Jarrad Branthwaite.  
  90'  
  Post update  
  Attempt saved. André Gomes (Everton) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Lewis Dobbin.  
  Post update  
  Corner, Everton. Conceded by Diogo Dalot.  
  89'  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Foul by Sofyan Amrabat (Manchester United).  
  84'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Vitalii Mykolenko (Everton) header from the left side of the six yard box misses to the left.  
  84'  
  Post update  
  Attempt blocked. Dwight McNeil (Everton) left footed shot from the centre of the box is blocked.  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by Taxi for Ozil, at 14:28 9 MarTaxi for Ozil  
  14:28 9 Mar  
  The phrase, “Papering over the cracks” comes to mind! This is not a good Manchester Utd team and they are light years behind the top sides!  
  331  
  36  
  J  
  Reply posted by Jimbo, at 14:35 9 MarJimbo  
  14:35 9 Mar  
  to Taxi for Ozil  
  "  
  The phrase, “Papering over the cracks” comes to mind! This is not a good Manchester Utd team and they are light years behind the top sides!  
  "  
  Jimbo replied:  
  Could be another 20 years before United win a title, Liverpool went 30 years without one so can happen to the big clubs. No one has a god given right to win the league.  
  257  
  32  
  More replies (53)  
  D  
  Comment posted by DavidG, at 14:31 9 MarDavidG  
  14:31 9 Mar  
  Neutral Arsenal fan here. That’s one of the worst games I’ve seen all season. Everton could have played for a week and not scored. Ten Haag will give his usual delusional verdict on the game but they were worse than Everton.  
  321  
  46  
  G  
  Reply posted by Geoffrey Cole, at 14:42 9 MarGeoffrey Cole  
  14:42 9 Mar  
  to DavidG  
  "  
  Neutral Arsenal fan here. That’s one of the worst games I’ve seen all season. Everton could have played for a week and not scored. Ten Haag will give his usual delusional verdict on the game but they were worse than Everton.  
  "  
  Geoffrey Cole replied:  
  MU fan and I agree it was a poor game, not sure we were worse than Everton though - must have been a close thing in that regard.  
  120  
  9  
  More replies (26)  
  L  
  Comment posted by Liquidator, at 14:38 9 MarLiquidator  
  14:38 9 Mar  
  Ganacho went from writhing in agony to jumping about in 2 seconds flat. Both were penalties but why do they make out they are so badly hurt, its pathetic.  
  265  
  28  
  P  
  Reply posted by paul, at 15:00 9 Marpaul  
  15:00 9 Mar  
  to Liquidator  
  "  
  Ganacho went from writhing in agony to jumping about in 2 seconds flat. Both were penalties but why do they make out they are so badly hurt, its pathetic.  
  115  
  Comment posted by ALAN, at 14:31 9 MarALAN  
  14:31 9 Mar  
  Nice gift from Everton. Can we please have a button where we can have just crowd noise rather than have the constant verbal diarrhoea from these commentators. Amazon games offer this facility and its great.  
  6  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (36)  
  Comment posted by TheDarkKnight, at 14:35 9 MarTheDarkKnight  
  14:35 9 Mar  
  If United play like that against Liverpool next week they will get ripped to shreds. Rashford is the laziest player I have seen for a long time.  
  176  
  21  
  S  
  Reply posted by SuperSalah, at 14:38 9 MarSuperSalah  
  14:38 9 Mar  
  to TheDarkKnight  
  "  
  If United play like that against Liverpool next week they will get ripped to shreds. Rashford is the laziest player I have seen for a long time.  
  "  
  SuperSalah replied:  
  Congratulations Captain Obvious, try telling us something we don't know. Rashford is a 5th rate Wellbeck.  
  89  
  33  
  More replies (21)  
  G  
  Comment posted by Graycus, at 14:30 9 MarGraycus  
  Reply posted by Jimbo, at 14:38 9 MarJimbo  
  "  
  Awful standard of football by both team.  
  The Prem isn't what it used to be, much more enjoyable 20 years ago. There is a distinct lack of individual skill and quality these days because of the preference for athleticism over skill.  
  102  
  31  
  More replies (23)  
  J  
  Comment posted by JohnnyD, at 14:29 9 MarJohnnyD  
  14:29 9 Mar  
  Very clever plan by Bruno to weaken the England squad for the Euros. Gives the penalty to Rashford, Southgate sees that he has scored (probably through having him in his fantasy league team) and justifies Rashfords selection to himself. Excellent forward planning by the Portuguese.  
  118  
  22  
  N  
  Reply posted by Name, at 14:48 9 MarName  
  14:48 9 Mar  
  to JohnnyD  
  "  
  Very clever plan by Bruno to weaken the England squad for the Euros. Gives the penalty to Rashford, Southgate sees that he has scored (probably through having him in his fantasy league team) and justifies Rashfords selection to himself. Excellent forward planning by the Portuguese.  
  "  
  Name replied:  
  Everton really are the Tottenham of the north. Never do anything  
  34  
  Reply posted by tom, at 14:32 9 Martom  
  Comment posted by overpaid overrated, at 14:32 9 Maroverpaid overrated  
  14:32 9 Mar  
  Shocking game of football both teams are guilty of wasting millions of pounds on average players then pay thousands & thousands a week in wages both teams overrated & overpaid would not pay them tuppence  
  95  
  11  
  W  
  Reply posted by Winners And Sinners, at 14:49 9 MarWinners And Sinners  
  14:49 9 Mar  
  to overpaid overrated  
  "  
  Shocking game of football both teams are guilty of wasting millions of pounds on average players then pay thousands & thousands a week in wages both teams overrated & overpaid would not pay them tuppence  
  "  
  Winners And Sinners replied:  
  A game where neither deserved to win but one team had to win.  
  19  
  Reply posted by joe, at 14:35 9 Marjoe  
  More replies (15)  
  B  
  Comment posted by Bazil, at 14:28 9 MarBazil  
  14:28 9 Mar  
  lol. 94th minute 2-0 up. Rashford can’t help,himself Dive for a penalty 😂 Southgate would have loved that. 👏🤪  
  91  
  41  
  S  
  Reply posted by Sam Platt, at 14:31 9 MarSam Platt  
  14:31 9 Mar  
  to Bazil  
  "  
  lol. 94th minute 2-0 up. Rashford can’t help,himself Dive for a penalty 😂 Southgate would have loved that. 👏🤪  
  "  
  Sam Platt replied:  
  Clearly another pen, ref gave it, only then did he see the offside flag, as for a dive,if that was in middle of pitch Everton player could have been sent off.  
  52  
  31  
  More replies (12)  
  A  
  Comment posted by Apollo 11, at 14:31 9 MarApollo 11  
  Reply posted by The Spin Doctor, at 14:45 9 MarThe Spin Doctor  
  More replies (7)  
  L  
  Comment posted by Lanza lad, at 14:28 9 MarLanza lad  
  14:28 9 Mar  
  Fantastic result!!! That should keep ten hag in the job for at least another month.hiw the mighty have fallen.dire football.  
  63  
  24  
  W  
  Reply posted by whole_world_gone_mad, at 14:49 9 Marwhole_world_gone_mad  
  14:49 9 Mar  
  to Lanza lad  
  "  
  Fantastic result!!! That should keep ten hag in the job for at least another month.hiw the mighty have fallen.dire football.  
  22  
  Comment posted by finnharpsman, at 14:31 9 Marfinnharpsman  
  14:31 9 Mar  
  It is incomprehensible that 2 PL teaams could play so badly as both of these in the second half.  
  40  
  7  
  I  
  Reply posted by IanJackieSP8, at 15:15 9 MarIanJackieSP8  
  15:15 9 Mar  
  to finnharpsman  
  "  
  It is incomprehensible that 2 PL teaams could play so badly as both of these in the second half.  
  "  
  IanJackieSP8 replied:  
  You never get a decent game at 12.30. Time this starting time was removed.  
  22  
  Reply posted by Dave, at 14:30 9 MarDave  
  More replies (21)  
  D  
  Comment posted by DLyons, at 14:39 9 MarDLyons  
  14:39 9 Mar  
  Horrible, horrible game. Embarrassing for the Premiership. Everton offer nothing to the league & United aren't much better.  
  38  
  9  
  Z  
  Reply posted by zynism mushdye, at 15:26 9 Marzynism mushdye  
  15:26 9 Mar  
  to DLyons  
  "  
  Horrible, horrible game. Embarrassing for the Premiership. Everton offer nothing to the league & United aren't much better.  
  Reply posted by The Spin Doctor, at 15:51 9 MarThe Spin Doctor  
  More replies (3)  
  P  
  Comment posted by Pickers72, at 14:27 9 MarPickers72  
  14:27 9 Mar  
  Champions league place your having a laugh everton were the better team but only beat them with two penalties  
  44  
  24  
  A  
  Reply posted by And I said, at 14:33 9 MarAnd I said  
  14:33 9 Mar  
  to Pickers72  
  "  
  Champions league place your having a laugh everton were the better team but only beat them with two penalties  
  "  
  And I said replied:  
  "Everton registered over 20 attempts at Old Trafford but rarely troubled Andre Onana in the home goal"  
  I think you skipped over this part in the match report.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Accessibility links  
  Man Utd WomenManchester United Women2Bristol City WomenBristol City Women0  
  Manchester United 2-0 Bristol City: Lisa Naalsund double earns United win  
  By Adam MillingtonBBC Sport  
  Last updated on 17 March 202417 March 2024.From the section Women's Football28  
  Lisa Naalsund's double proved enough for Manchester United to edge past Women's Super League strugglers Bristol City.  
  Naalsund gave United a ninth-minute lead, rolling the ball past her marker after a skilful run before firing past Shae Yanez.  
  The Red Devils had the majority of the ball and tried to find ways to extend their lead, but were unproductive in the final third until Naalsund turned home from a corner in added time.  
  Bristol City - who are bottom of the table with just six points from 16 games - had come close to equalising at 1-0 down when Shania Hayles rattled the post in the second half.  
  The visitors showed glimpses of their attacking threat, particularly with pace on the counter-attack, but didn't produce many clear-cut chances - just like United.  
  City's hopes were also hit when defender Jamie Lee-Napier was sent off in the 82nd minute after picking up a second yellow card.  
  Naalsund's second goal settled the outcome as United held out for a clean sheet and victory that kept them fourth in the table and six points behind third-placed Arsenal.  
  Bristol City miss chance for vital points  
  Time is rapidly running out for Bristol City.  
  Having returned to the top flight, they seem destined to be relegated back to the Championship at the first time of asking with a six-point deficit to West Ham United.  
  They have won just one game this season and have Chelsea, Manchester City and Arsenal left to play in their final six games.  
  Lauren Smith's side will be frustrated by the fact they were unable to pick up what would have been vital points against United, with Bristol City mostly holding their own on Sunday.  
  Their deep defending frustrated United, making it difficult for them to find a way to get behind their backline and reach any areas where they could threaten.  
  Barring the two goals, goalkeeper Yanez had little to do as United failed to show their superior quality.  
  The hosts continually tried to fashion more chances, knocking the ball around the visitors' third, but were often unable to disrupt Bristol City's defensive shape.  
  Naalsund's second goal, which came when she hooked a corner past Yanez in the fifth minute of stoppage time, meant the result glossed over a performance that had been far from convincing.  
  Her two strikes were the only shots on target for the Red Devils.  
  Reaching the Champions League is likely out of reach for United, who would need to close their six-point gap with Arsenal, but it is another step in the right direction nevertheless.  
  For Bristol City, this 12th defeat of a disappointing campaign was another missed opportunity to try to salvage safety.  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Mari Ward.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Maya Le Tissier (Manchester United Women) wins a free kick in the defensive half.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Foul by Amalie Thestrup (Bristol City Women).  
  90'+5'  
  Goal!  
  Goal! Manchester United Women 2, Bristol City Women 0. Lisa Naalsund (Manchester United Women) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Katie Zelem with a cross following a corner.  
  90'+5'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Mari Ward.  
  90'+1'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Geyse (Manchester United Women) right footed shot from the right side of the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Lucía García.  
  90'  
  Substitution  
  Substitution, Bristol City Women. Lisa Evans replaces Ffion Morgan.  
  90'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Lucía García (Manchester United Women) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. Assisted by Katie Zelem with a cross following a set piece situation.  
  Post update  
  Delay over. They are ready to continue.  
  87'  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Foul by Sarah Stratigakis (Bristol City Women).  
  85'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Rachel Williams (Manchester United Women) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Lisa Naalsund.  
  84'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Abi Harrison.  
  83'  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by Bernard Hedges, at 15:29 17 MarBernard Hedges  
  15:29 17 Mar  
  It's almost impossible to conceive there is a division below the "WSL" where Bristol City WFC was the top club last season and earned promotion. A couple of games in and it was painfully obvious they were going straight back down. The disparity in this division between the haves and the have-nots is more abyss than chasm.  
  5  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (2)  
  Comment posted by Guy Fawkes , at 17:20 17 MarGuy Fawkes  
  17:20 17 Mar  
  Play like this against city next week and we'll get hammered. I suppose every cloud has a silver lining because I definitely don't want Chelsea to win the league again!  
  9  
  2  
  D  
  Comment posted by David McManus, at 15:08 17 MarDavid McManus  
  Reply posted by Guy Fawkes , at 09:48 18 MarGuy Fawkes  
  0  
  S  
  Comment posted by ste, at 14:10 17 Marste  
  14:10 17 Mar  
  No disrespect to Bristol but this should have been an absolute carve up today. Predicable play as ever from Skinner. Predictable substitutions. Playing out from the back and creating very little up front. Needs an overhaul if we have any chance of breaking into the top 3  
  7  
  2  
  L  
  Reply posted by lozza, at 20:01 17 Marlozza  
  20:01 17 Mar  
  to ste  
  "  
  No disrespect to Bristol but this should have been an absolute carve up today. Predicable play as ever from Skinner. Predictable substitutions. Playing out from the back and creating very little up front. Needs an overhaul if we have any chance of breaking into the top 3  
  "  
  lozza replied:  
  Agree would have been carve up but Bristol didn't have a shot on target. 3 shots against earps they would have won it. Also pathetic watching united players trying to get napier sent off.  
  2  
  3  
  L  
  Comment posted by longsandswhites, at 15:17 17 Marlongsandswhites  
  15:17 17 Mar  
  Very ineffective front line for United today. Nearly 70% possession and 2 on target  
  6  
  1  
  S  
  Reply posted by ste, at 18:44 17 Marste  
  18:44 17 Mar  
  to longsandswhites  
  "  
  Very ineffective front line for United today. Nearly 70% possession and 2 on target  
  "  
  ste replied:  
  absolutely right. 5 forwards played and it's a midfielder who scores twice.  
  2  
  1  
  G  
  Comment posted by Guy Fawkes , at 20:35 17 MarGuy Fawkes  
  20:35 17 Mar  
  I don't know why some people are obsessed with the crowd attendances, who cares as long as those who actually attended the game enjoyed it.  
  6  
  3  
  Removed comment  
  L  
  Comment posted by lozza, at 19:51 17 Marlozza  
  19:51 17 Mar  
  Clean sheet at last for United. Earps returns to her best. Oh just seen the stats no shots on target that explains it.  
  3  
  3  
  P  
  Comment posted by Pete Hannam, at 20:38 17 MarPete Hannam  
  20:38 17 Mar  
  Bristol City were good in parts but not good enough its harder against the top sides in the WSL for Bristol City its about time that Bristol City were told that they have 2 years to improve otherwise they lose the right to be promoted to the WSL as they are just not good enough for the Women's Super League in my opinion.  
  1  
  5  
  S  
  Reply posted by Simon Holmes, at 21:29 17 MarSimon Holmes  
  21:29 17 Mar  
  to Pete Hannam  
  "  
  Bristol City were good in parts but not good enough its harder against the top sides in the WSL for Bristol City its about time that Bristol City were told that they have 2 years to improve otherwise they lose the right to be promoted to the WSL as they are just not good enough for the Women's Super League in my opinion.  
  "  
  Simon Holmes replied:  
  The game is all about opinions, I disagree with yours. presumably you'll also give Sheff Utd & Burnley 2 yrs to improve or no more Prem League.  
  5  
  2  
  More replies (1)  
  D  
  Comment posted by DeFund GLoopy AxeTVTax, at 17:34 17 MarDeFund GLoopy AxeTVTax  
  17:34 17 Mar  
  The haves are the trophy trams attached to glamorous premiere teams....the have not...are attached to...a vague hope  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Accessibility links  
  FA Cup semi-finals: Coventry to face Manchester United, Manchester City to play Chelsea  
  Last updated on 17 March 202417 March 2024.From the section FA Cup  
  Championship side Coventry City will face Manchester United in the FA Cup semi-finals, while holders Manchester City will play Chelsea.  
  Both semi-finals will take place at Wembley Stadium on the weekend of 20-21 April.  
  Coventry have not played in an FA Cup semi-final since they won the competition back in 1987, the club's only major trophy.  
  They are managed by former Manchester United striker Mark Robins, who helped the Red Devils win the FA Cup in 1990.  
  Twelve-time winners Manchester United last lifted the FA Cup in 2016, and were runners-up in the competition last season.  
  Holders Manchester City are looking to reach their 13th FA Cup final and are chasing an unprecedented second consecutive Treble.  
  Chelsea have reached five of the last seven FA Cup finals, last winning the competition in 2018.  
  Top stories  
  Listen to BBC Radio 5 Live and follow live text updates as Chelsea face Ajax in the Women's Champions League quarter-final second leg at Stamford Bridge.  
  Manchester City defender and former England captain Steph Houghton will retire at the end of the current Women's Super League season.  
  We've launched three separate channels - BBC Sport, BBC Football and BBC Cricket - to give you another way to stay up to date.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  A Brief History of Manchester United Football Club  
  Probably one of the most annoying questions that you get asked as a Mancunian is ‘Do you support United or City’? When you live in the home of probably the most famous football club in the world, it’s no surprise that everyone has the beautiful game on their minds. We’re not going to pick sides, but we’ve summed up the key moments in the history of Manchester United to create a little crib sheet to help visitors to fit in.  
  The Early Years  
  Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club, Manchester United’s first ever official match resulted in a 6-0 defeat to Bolton Wanderer’s reserve team, something that fans would struggle to believe possible today. The team entered the First Division (the leading division of the time) of the Football League in 1892, before being relegated after just two seasons.  
  In 1902, suffering debts of £2,670 (equivalent nowadays to around £260,000), team captain Harry Stafford found four local businessmen who were willing to invest £500 each in the club. This signalled a turn-around for the team, who officially changed their name to Manchester United and went on to be promoted back into the First Division, where they won the league title for the first time in 1908. The following season they won the first ever Charity Shield and their first FA Cup title, securing their place in the history books.  
  Become a Culture Tripper!  
  Sign up to our newsletter to save up to 500$ on our unique trips.  
  The Busby Years and Beyond  
  After the Second World War, Matt Busby took over the manager’s role at the club, one again turning everything around. For three years in a row, Manchester United finished second in the league, finishing top in 1952. Five years later, they became the first team to play in the European Cup, achieving an astonishing 10-0 win over Anderlecht during the tournament, a win which remains their biggest victory to date.  
  Perhaps the most famous moment in the football club’s history is also the most tragic. In 1958, returning from a European Cup victory against Red Star Belgrade, the plane carrying the football team and officials crashed during take-off from Munich, killing 23 passengers including eight players.  
  Busby recovered from his injuries and rebuilt the team through the 1960’s with the addition of iconic players such as Bobby Charlton and George Best, leading his new team to victory in the FA Cup in 1963. Five years later, after a string of league wins, Manchester United won the European Cup, the first English team to do so. Busby resigned as manager in 1969, replaced by former player Will McGuinness.  
  After poor results, Busby briefly returned as manager until Frank O’Farrell and subsequently Tommy Docherty rose to the challenge. Following a brief spell in the Second Division, Docherty managed to get the club back up to speed and they went on to win the league again in 1977, beating Liverpool 2-1. Although he had raised the club back to their former glory, Docherty was sacked soon after when it emerged that he’d been having an affair with the club physiotherapist’s wife.  
  The Alex Ferguson Years  
  The next decade saw a fairly non-descript period in the clubs history, with mediocre results yet a steady place in the First Division. It wasn’t until Alex Ferguson took over the manager’s role in 1987 that Manchester United began to edge their way towards the glory that they now hold.  
  In the first two seasons under Ferguson, the club only managed to secure 11th place in the league. In 1990, however, Manchester United celebrated a win in the FA Cup, shortly followed by winning their first Cup Winner’s Cup and the UEFA Super Cup. Then, it 1993, the team finally won the league for the first time since 1967, following their success the next season.  
  Continuing their string of victories, the club became the first to win ‘The Treble’ (the Premier League, FA Cup and UEFA Champions League) in 1999. Subsequently, Alex Ferguson was knighted and lauded as the greatest football manager in the world by many.  
  Throughout the next decade, Manchester United secured various victories including FA Cup titles and winning the Premier League several times. One of their most iconic players of this time period, Ryan Giggs made his record 759th appearance for the club in 2008, becoming a record-breaker. In 2013, the team won their 20th league title following a victory to Aston Villa at home at their iconic Old Trafford stadium.  
  Recent Years  
  To great dismay from fans, Alex Ferguson retired in 2013 and was replaced by David Moyes who only stayed with the club for ten months. Ryan Giggs subsequently took on the role as player-manager until Louis van Gaal took over in 2014. Despite finishing fourth then fifth in the Premier League under Van Gaal’s leadership, Manchester United managed to win the FA Cup for the 12th time. Jose Mourinho took over when Van Gaal was dismissed.  
  To date, the football club have won 20 League Titles, 12 FA Cup Titles, 5 League Cups, 21 Community Shields, 3 European Cups, one UEFA Cup Winner’s Cup, one UEFA Super Cup, one Intercontinental Cup and one FIFA Club World Cup. Alongside these victories, many of them records, Manchester United are also the highest-earning football club in the entire world and are widely regarded as having the most supporters across the world, more than any other football team.  
  KEEN TO EXPLORE THE WORLD?  
  Connect with like-minded people on our premium trips curated by local insiders and with care for the world  
  Since you are here, we would like to share our vision for the future of travel - and the direction Culture Trip is moving in.  
  Culture Trip launched in 2011 with a simple yet passionate mission: to inspire people to go beyond their boundaries and experience what makes a place, its people and its culture special and meaningful — and this is still in our DNA today. We are proud that, for more than a decade, millions like you have trusted our award-winning recommendations by people who deeply understand what makes certain places and communities so special.  
  Increasingly we believe the world needs more meaningful, real-life connections between curious travellers keen to explore the world in a more responsible way. That is why we have intensively curated a collection of premium small-group trips as an invitation to meet and connect with new, like-minded people for once-in-a-lifetime experiences in three categories: Culture Trips, Rail Trips and Private Trips. Our Trips are suitable for both solo travelers, couples and friends who want to explore the world together.  
  Culture Trips are deeply immersive 5 to 16 days itineraries, that combine authentic local experiences, exciting activities and 4-5* accommodation to look forward to at the end of each day. Our Rail Trips are our most planet-friendly itineraries that invite you to take the scenic route, relax whilst getting under the skin of a destination. Our Private Trips are fully tailored itineraries, curated by our Travel Experts specifically for you, your friends or your family.  
  We know that many of you worry about the environmental impact of travel and are looking for ways of expanding horizons in ways that do minimal harm - and may even bring benefits. We are committed to go as far as possible in curating our trips with care for the planet. That is why all of our trips are flightless in destination, fully carbon offset - and we have ambitious plans to be net zero in the very near future.  
  A look back at Manchester’s greatest nightclubs and venues  
  Over the years numerous iconic nightclubs, bars and pubs have disappeared from Manchester. Some of these venues have been legendary, others, well, were just a bit dodgy. Either way, if you visited one it will have left a lasting impression – whether this is positive or negative is another question entirely. With that in mind, what better time to take a little trip down memory lane and remember some of the forgotten clubs of our city. Enjoy… Piccadilly 21s  
  Piccadilly 21s was a ‘90s party paradise located in Piccadilly Gardens. It had a reputation for being very loud, very messy and very sticky, with cheap drinks to boot – there were even chandeliers in the bogs. Unfortunately it also had a reputation for being rough as owt, after it managed to attract gang members and other unsavoury clientele in the late ‘80s and 90s, and it eventually shut down in 2004.  
  These days it’s a Premier Inn and a Nando’s – so the floors are probably just as sticky to be fair.  
  Manchester Past  
  Rotters  
  Besides having a name which would prove a branding nightmare for modern PR-led venues, Rotters boasted some of the best parties in the city, after it took over the site from Romanoff’s. Located at the top of Oxford Road, in the ‘70s and ‘80s Rotters was a hugely popular nightclub, especi  
  It was housed inside the old Gaumont Cinema, and sadly the whole building was demolished in 1990 and replaced by an NCP car park.  
  Pips  
  Pips, located behind the cathedral, was a popular nightclub in the ‘70s, and was frequented by local musical celebs like Joy Division, Ian Brown, Morrissey and Johnny Marr. It boasted four different rooms playing a variety of music, including a Punk room, Soul room and the infamous Roxy room with a huge Brian Ferry painting on the wall. Pips closed in the early ‘80s before becoming a club called Konspiracy – which closed not long after.  
  Manchester Libraries  
  The Plaza  
  The Plaza was one of the city’s most popular venues to dance to the likes of Sinatra and Elvis in the ‘60s, and was located on Oxford Street. Owned by Jimmy Savile, the disgraced DJ pioneered lunchtime disco sessions for the city’s young workers, where you could grab a quick lunch and soft drink while having a dance. It later turned into Tiffany’s in the ‘70s, complete with fake palm trees and loads of disco balls, before finally becoming Tropicana, which closed in the late ‘80s. It’s now a Pizza Express.  
  The Hacienda We couldn’t do a list of iconic Mancunian nightclubs and not include what is arguably one of the most famous venues in the world.  
  Founded by Tony Wilson in 1982, the Hacienda managed to define a whole era in the city, putting ‘Madchester’ on the map. Acid House and rave culture was born here – as were New Order and the Happy Mondays.  
  The club closed in 1997 and was demolished 18 months later, with a block of nondescript red brick flats now on the site – called The Hacienda Apartments.  
  Mikey / Flickr  
  Jilly’s Rockworld  
  Jilly’s was a Manchester institution. Originally called Fagin’s, it opened in 1970 on Oxford Road before being renamed Jilly’s in 1983, eventually adding Rockworld to the end.  
  The alternative club was always packed full with a cross section of people with a passion for guitar music, including punks, skaters, goths, metalheads, and indie kids.  
  Underneath was another club called the Musicbox – previously Rafters – but sadly both venues shut their doors back in 2010.  
  Leave a Reply  
  Remembering Manchester’s lost underground market that now lies empty beneath the city  
  Do you have memories of shopping in the underground Market Centre?  
  Manchester's Finest Group & Urban Sherman / YouTube  
  Manchester used to have an underground market that now lies abandoned beneath the city centre.  
  If you walk along Market Street, you’re walking above what used to be the Market Centre – an underground shopping area filled with stalls and units selling music, clothes and a variety of other essential and non-essential items.  
  The underground Market Centre opened in 1972 and was a busy and bustling shopping emporium, much like the Arndale and Market Street both are today.  
  Punks would shop there for outfits, music fans could browse through the vinyl record shops and buy tickets to gigs at Piccadilly Box Office. It even had a Stolen from Ivor – which was the first place in Manchester to sell the jeans brand Levi’s, and where many would flock to get their hands on a pair of 501s.  
  Fashion addicts could hit up shops including Roxy, Oasis and Justins as well as a number of other boutique stalls, including the leather shop, for cool jackets.  
  DJs could sift through the collections at Underground Records Import and fans could shop at iconic music stalls including Collectors Records, Yvonne’s Record Stall, and the Spinn Inn Disc Centre.  
  The Market Centre was the place to be throughout the ‘70s and ‘80s until it closed down in 1989.  
  The entrance to it was located on Brown Street, with two other entrances on Norfolk Street and Spring Gardens. It had escalators going down under the pavement that led to this total treasure trove.  
  If you head to the Tesco on Market Street and go down to the lower level, you’re actually in what used to be part of the underground market.  
  But now it has fallen into disrepair, with the odd urban explorer who has dared to delve into the depth of the city to see what remains of this now eerie, decaying ghost market.  
  One explorer, known as Urban Sherman on YouTube, went down to have a look at what’s left of these once bustling underground stalls. Finding a way into where the old main entrance was located, down by the side of Tesco behind the food trailer, he climbs in and lands on the old steps with tiled walls.  
  As torches light up the dark depths of the city, we can see wires hanging, rubble strewn across the floor, graffiti on walls and one rusty sign that reads: “factory prices.”  
  It appears a wall of breeze blocks has been put up to block off any entry along the halls of the former market with the rest of it inaccessible, only to live on in the memories of those who once shopped there, and in old archived photographs.  
  Got a story to tell?  
  Have you got a story or video you think our audience will love? We want to hear from you, drop us an email on submit@propermanchester.com and we’ll get back to you.  
  The legendary nightclubs that Mancunians would most like to bring back  
  We asked our readers which nightclubs that no longer exist they would choose to bring back – and we got some great answers.  
  If you could choose just one, which would it be?  
  Here’s a list of former nightclubs that people would love to see return, as chosen by Proper Manchester readers.  
  The Boardwalk  
  The Boardwalk was a nightclub based on Little Peter Street in Manchester which was open from 1986 to 1999. It was a multi-floor nightclub, gig venue and rehearsal complex all in one.  
  It’s where Oasis played their first ever gig in 1992 and saw many notable bands that were a part of the Madchester music scene, including the likes of Inspiral Carpets, Doves, Happy Mondays, James and more. These days, it’s used as an office space.  
  There’s a blue plaque bolted to the wall which reads: “Remember me. I was something once.” It has a yellow smiley face in a nod to the Madchester acid house era.  
  Club Phoenix  
  Located on University Precinct, on Oxford Road, this sweatbox of a student dive would have music blaring on different nights, playing everything from indie bangers to dance classics and everything in between.  
  It was a scream club filled with young students looking for cheap drinks and cheap thrills too. There were plenty of messy drunken shenanigans. Being close to the Academy, it would be a great place for the young ‘uns to go for pre-gig bevvies.  
  The New Continental Club  
  The New Continental Club was on Harter Street, Manchester and opened in 1967. It was affectionately known as The Conti. It closed in 2001 and became The Tube nightclub, which has also since closed.  
  Many nurses and frontline emergency services workers frequented The Conti and many say they experienced some of the best nights out of their lives.  
  The narrow staircase would lead down to the basement club, food would be served through a hatch and the queues to the toilets could be as long as your arm – they were pretty minging too.  
  Discotheque Royales  
  Built in 1845, the building was originally made to be an amphitheatre. But in 1921 it was changed into a cinema after facing stiff competition from the Palace Theatre and Opera House.  
  After being used as a bingo hall, the historic landmark then became one of Manchester’s most iconic nightclubs known by most as ‘Royales’, since 1989. In later years it went on to become Infinity and M-Two but Royales was legendary throughout the ‘90s.  
  Inside, it had many levels and a huge dance floor that was meant to look like it was lit up under a huge chandelier. With long draped velvet curtains, lights and reflective mirrors everywhere, it was party central.  
  DJ Brutus Gold held Love Train nights there until the show moved to the Ritz in 2000.  
  Fifth Avenue  
  This club started out as Legend, which became known as Manchester’s ‘other club’ during the ‘80s and the height of the Hacienda era, and saw top DJs who also played nights at Wigan Pier.  
  When it became Fifth Ave it was transformed into an indie music haven. As revellers walked down into the dingy basement and the whiff of cheap bleach in the air would hit them in the face, some of the best tunes from Manchester bands would be blasting, as partygoers walked straight across the sticky floor to the bar where they’d order a drink served in a plastic cup.  
  Club-goers soon got to know that if you went up to request a song from the DJ, it wouldn’t get played. In later years, it became known simply as Fifth, after owners tried a bit of a refresh.  
  But as the pandemic hit, the club sat empty and shuttered, and sadly never to return as it closed for good in 2021.  
  Twisted Wheel Club  
  It quickly became a Manchester institution after opening in the ‘60s, attracting mods across the North looking for somewhere to dance all night to rhythm and blues.  
  Before Twisted Wheel, clubs would play mainstream popular music. This Manchester establishment was groundbreaking and paved the way for how nightclubs would play different music genres to suit various tastes in the future.  
  Twisted Wheel, based on Swan Street, was a legendary haven for Northern Soul enthusiasts. It closed for a while in 1971, being renamed Placemate 7, then Follies. The club closed for good in 2021.  
  Thunderdome  
  If the Hacienda was too pretentious for you, or you got turned away at the door, there was another legendary Madchester club playing all the great acid house music buzzing dancers wanted to rave the night away to – it was called the Thunderdome.  
  Located at 255 Oldham Road, this club was all about the music. It was edgier, full of all walks of life and was even home to some of Manchester’s criminal underworld. Many fondly referred to it as the ‘Dome.  
  Initially, although it felt a bit dangerous, nobody wanted any trouble, they just wanted to get off their trolley and enjoy the music. But over the years there were police raids and even helicopters circling the club as well as undercover officers wearing yellow smiley face T-shirts mingling in amongst the hooligans, gang members and just generally dodgy people.  
  Unfortunately, its rough reputation has stuck with it to this day, while the Hacienda is remembered most as the epicentre of the Madchester acid house scene. The Thunderdome was demolished in 2010 but its legend lives on in the memories of retired ravers and on tribute Facebook groups.  
  Travel back in time through Manchester in the ‘90s with these 30 photos  
  Fashion shows, bombings, Maine Road, buses, cars, the Metrolink and the Hacienda…  
  Here’s 30 nostalgic photographs of what Manchester looked like in the 1990s.  
  The city centre has changed a lot over the decades, which probably comes as no surprise with the amount of construction going on – it’s changing by the day.  
  But as the years go by and buildings you once knew are torn down and replaced with new apartments or office blocks, it’s left to your grainy memory of how places used to look and the times you may have once had there.  
  The nineties was a great era for music in Manchester and saw the birth of bands including Oasis, The Doves and Take That. It was the decade of hope after the recession of the 1980s, but there were ups and downs also.  
  On April 1st 1990 prisoners in Strangeways (now HMP Manchester) took control of its chapel, and quickly spread throughout most of the prison to begin a riot which lasted 25 days.  
  Hundreds of inmates got up onto the roof, with the incident claiming the life of one prisoner and injuring 147 prison officers and 47 prisoners.  
  The riot was followed by similar disturbances at other prisons across the country and sparked a conversation about reform for prison conditions.  
  The decade was also blighted by the IRA bomb of 1996. The Provisional Irish Republican Army detonated a 1,500-kilogram lorry bomb on Corporation Street on June 15th.  
  It was the biggest bomb detonated in Great Britain since the Second World War, injuring 212 innocent people and causing £700 million worth of damage to the city centre.  
  The event kick-started the regeneration and modernisation of the city which has evolved into the Manchester we know and love today.  
  The city already began planning on improvements as part of its campaign to hold the 2000 Olympics and Paralympics. However, the bid was ultimately unsuccessful and Manchester was beaten to it by Sydney, with Beijing coming in as runner-up.  
  But Manchester did go on to hold the 2002 Commonwealth Games, with The Commonwealth Games Stadium becoming the new home of Manchester City after the club vacated Maine Road – which was then demolished and turned into new homes.  
  The Hacienda, which opened in 1982, became the nightclub at the forefront of the acid house scene. The club was owned by record label Factory Records and was famous for playing a major part in the Madchester movement.  
  Unfortunately, the club gained a reputation for drug use and after enjoying its heyday throughout the best part of the ‘90s, it fell victim to crime issues and financial troubles which eventually led to its closure in 1997.  
  The club was subsequently demolished and replaced by apartments.  
  The newly built Trafford Centre opened in 1998, the year after the film Titanic was released, which its themed food court paid homage to. Since then, Trafford Park has transformed from the derelict marshlands it once was and into a centre of retail, leisure and entertainment.  
  Manchester United were the most successful football team of the city during this era, and the club won numerous domestic and international titles under manager Alex Ferguson.  
  David Beckham, Nicky Butt, Ryan Giggs, Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Paul Scholes were just some of the players who played for United during the club’s golden era – playing in the newly formed Premier League, which was founded in 1992.  
  For the first time in English football history the Reds secured the Treble in 1999 – the League, FA Cup and Champions League.  
  Meanwhile, the Blue side of Manchester – Man City – went through many ups and downs. In 1998 City were relegated to the third tier of the English Football League. The club regained promotion to the top tier in 2001-02 and have remain in the Premier League since.  
  Manchester was once home to the iconic Strangeways Boddingtons Brewery, which owned pubs throughout the North West.  
  The brand was best known for its ‘Boddies’ – a straw-golden, hoppy bitter which was one of the first beers to be packaged in cans containing a widget, giving it a creamy draught-style head.  
  In the 1990s, the beer was promoted as The Cream of Manchester in a popular advertising campaign credited with raising Manchester’s profile. Model and actress Melanie Sykes was the Boddington’s girl star of the ads, which saw her take a swig of a pint and say ‘by ‘eck’, with a creamy moustache.  
  The brewery shut down in February 2005 and its workers clocked off their final ever shift, never to return, following its 227-year history.  
  Got a story to tell?  
  Have you got a story or video you think our audience will love? We want to hear from you, drop us an email on submit@propermanchester.com and we’ll get back to you.  
  Brentford vs Manchester United: Prediction, kick-off time, TV, live stream, team news, h2h results, odds  
  Brentford host Manchester United this weekend as Erik ten Hag’s side look to show their latest positive result was no flash in the pan.  
  Too often this season, the Red Devils have slipped on a banana skin just as they threatened to build some serious momentum for a push towards qualifying for the Champions League.  
  However, after back-to-back wins including a triumphant FA Cup beating of Liverpool, they find themselves only six points off fifth place - which could very well deliver them back to Europe’s top table.  
  Up next are a Brentford team only five points off the Premier League relegation zone after losing to lowly Burnley before the international break.  
  Thomas Frank’s Bees have won just two of their last 17 games in all competitions.  
  Date, kick-off time and venue  
  Brentford vs Manchester United is scheduled for an 8pm GMT kick-off on Saturday, March 30, 2024.  
  The match will take place at the Gtech Community Stadium.  
  Scott McTominay was the hero as United beat Brentford in October  
  Manchester United via Getty Imag  
  Where to watch Brentford vs Manchester United  
  TV channel: In the UK, the game will be televised live on Sky Sports Main Event and Premier League.  
  Live stream: Subscribers can also catch the contest live online via the Sky Go app.  
  Live blog: You can follow all the action on matchday via Standard Sport’s live blog.  
  Brentford vs Manchester United team news  
  Keane Lewis-Potter will likely replace the suspended Sergio Reguilon while Ethan Pinnock could be fit to make his return to the defence.  
  Bryan Mbeumo is in line for a first Brentford start since December after making his comeback from an ankle injury before the break.  
  Amad Diallo is suspended following his red card for celebrating his winning goal past Liverpool. Antony and Mason Mount are pushing for starts after positive cameos off the bench in that game.  
  Brentford vs Manchester United prediction  
  The Bees’ terrible run of form is showing little sign of righting itself and, although United remain dogged by inconsistencies, they are the favourites in west London.  
  Since the Bees’ return to the top flight, they have lost four of five meetings with United - although they won this fixture 4-0 at the start of last season.  
  Manchester United are one of the most successful football clubs in England with a tradition for winning titles. The fanbase also stretches around the globe as one of the world’s most recognisable sporting franchises.  
  Manchester United club name  
  The Red Devils have used two names since the team was founded in 1878 with a new name taken on following a restructuring of the club in 1902.  
  Founded as: Newton Heath LYR Football Club (1878-1902)  
  Named changed to: Manchester United (1902-present)  
  Nickname: The Red Devils  
  Manchester United founding year  
  The club was founded in 1878 by a group of workers in the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway.  
  Manchester United home stadium  
  Manchester United have called three stadia their home over the years with Old Trafford becoming the club’s permanent residence in 1910.  
  First stadium: North Road (1878-1893)  
  Previous stadium: Bank Street (1893-1910)  
  Current stadium: Old Trafford (1910-present)  
  Old Trafford’s Capacity: 74,310  
  Manchester United training ground  
  United train at the Trafford Training Centre, which is more commonly referred to as Carrington. It takes its nickname from the nearby village and is also the headquarters for the club’s academy.  
  Previous training ground: The Cliff (1938-2000)  
  Location: Carrington; ‎Greater Manchester  
  Manchester United current league  
  Manchester United are one of the six ever-present teams in the Premier League following its formation in 1992. The club is also the most successful in the division’s history with 13 titles from a potential 30.  
  Current league: Premier League (1992-present)  
  Previous league: English Football League, First Division (1975-1992)  
  Manchester United current manager  
  Manchester United appointed Erik ten Hag as their next manager in April 2022. The 52-year-old Dutchman replaced interim head coach Ralf Rangnick on an initial three-year contract.  
  Current manager: Erik ten Hag (2022-2025 expected)  
  Address: Sir Matt Busby Way, Manchester M16 0RA, United Kingdom  
  Manchester United tickets  
  Fans can purchase tickets for Manchester United’s home matches through the club’s official website. The Red Devils offer fans a range of options from season tickets and single-match tickets to hospitality packages. But the demand for tickets can make it challenging for fans.  
  Club History  
  Manchester City has a club history that dates back to 1880 when St Mark’s church formed a football club. The Etihad Stadium outfit have since gone on to become one of England’s most successful clubs.  
  Club name  
  The Citizens initially adopted St Mark’s as their club name owing to the football team’s roots. But the team changed to Ardwick AFC from 1887 to 1894 before embracing Manchester City to better reflect the whole city. Their club name has remained as Manchester City throughout their history.  
  Manchester City badge  
  The first badge in Manchester City’s club history was a black circular design to denote St Mark’s. The badge featured a bold white cross and white text to create a strong contrast to the black base. While the club adopted a purple and white shield featuring ‘AAFC’ in contrasting segments for Ardwick AFC.  
  Manchester City would later embrace the city’s coat of arms for their first badge under their name as of 1894. The design featured a golden lion and a white deer on either side of a red and gold shield. It also included a sailing ship and it remained in use until the 2010s, including alone from 1976 to 1981.  
  Multiple other designs took prominence over the coat of arms as Manchester City’s club badge from 1960 onwards, though. The Citizens embraced a circular design once more from 1960 to 1997 with a few variations. Each design featured the sailing ship sat above either a red and gold or white shield.  
  The badges Manchester City adopted with a white shield also embraced a red rose below the sailing ship. But the club veered drastically away from their previous designs in 1997 when they introduced a new concept. Manchester City included a blue and white shield on the body of an eagle until 2016.  
  It was the club’s identity for nearly 20 years and also featured three stars to signify the past triumphs in Manchester City’s trophy history. But the Citizens adopted their current crest in 2016 by reviving the circular design used from 1972 to 1976 and 1981 to 1997. It also now embraced a fully blue shield.  
  Kit history  
  St Mark’s adopted the first formal kit in Manchester City’s club history in 1884. It had a black design featuring a Maltese-style cross but the club adopted their now traditional colours in 1887 following their rebranding as Ardwick AFC. The club played in a two-tone blue shirt but briefly used just white.  
  The start of the club’s history as Manchester City in 1894 saw the Citizens return to using a blue shirt. It was also from their move to a sky blue strip that the club developed their nickname, the Sky Blues. While Manchester City have only altered the design and shade of sky blue used for their kits since.  
  League history  
  Manchester City’s history changed forever following Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan’s takeover in 2008. The Citizens are now one of the most successful teams in the Premier League. They had not lifted a top-flight title since the 1967/68 old First Division season before winning the title in 2011/12.  
  Premier League football has occurred at Etihad Stadium since 2002 following Manchester City’s spell as a yo-yo club. The Citizens even dropped into the old Second Division for the 1998/99 season. The club have otherwise only ever played in the top two tiers of the English league pyramid bar 1891/91.  
  Manchester City first entered a league as Ardwick AFC in 1891/92 with the third and final season of the Football Alliance. They would then enter the Football League in the Second Division from 1892/93 and first contested a top-flight season in 1899/1900. A first top-flight title also later followed in 1936/37.  
  Manchester City trophies  
  Manchester City’s trophy history is now one of the best in England having been a powerhouse club since Sheikh Mansour’s takeover. The Citizens have won nine top-flight titles over the years, including seven in the Premier League era. They have also held the FA Cup trophy aloft seven times to date.  
  A further eight EFL Cup titles feature in Manchester City’s trophy cabinet along with their six FA Community Shield titles, formerly known as the FA Charity Shield. They have also lifted seven second-tier titles and lifted the UEFA Cup Winners’ Cup in 1969/70.  
  Arguably Manchester City’s greatest ever trophy triumph is their Champions League Final win against Inter Milan in 2022/23. The club would then win the UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup in 2023 having never won them before in their history.  
  Players and managers  
  Manchester City’s club history dating back to 1880 and featuring a number of trophies along the way has ensured a number of icons have also graced the game in their sky blue shirts. Sergio Aguero and David Silva are two of the club’s modern-day greats with fellow Manchester City legend, Yaya Toure.  
  The trio each helped to establish the Etihad Stadium club as one of the teams to beat in the Premier League. It is also why Aguero, Silva and heroic club captain Vincent Kompany have statues outside of Manchester City’s stadium. The Citizens unveiled Aguero’s on the 10th anniversary of his iconic goal.  
  Aguero scored the goal that won Manchester City their first Premier League title in 2011/12. He fired home on 93:20 to beat Queens Park Rangers and pip the Citizens’ arch-rivals, Manchester United, on the final day. It was the first of Aguero’s five, plus Silva and Kompany’s four, Premier League trophies.  
  Roberto Mancini was the manager behind Manchester City’s maiden Premier League title. While Pep Guardiola has become a legendary coach at Etihad Stadium – as well as in the general game – having enjoyed a trophy-laden tenure. Wilf Wild, meanwhile, oversaw their first top-flight honour in 1936/37.  
  Club History  
  Manchester United’s club history cements them as one of the most iconic football teams on the planet. Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club, the club has a rich and storied history. The club now plays in the Premier League and are the division’s most-successful team with 20 top-flight titles won.  
  Club name  
  The club’s original name was a nod to the humble origins as a team for railway workers in the Newton Heath area. But the club later changed their name to better reflect their status in 1902. While fans took inspiration from their red shirts for their nickname, the Red Devils.  
  Since 1910, Manchester United have called Old Trafford home. The ground has undergone a number of renovations and expansions over the years to become one of the largest football stadia in the UK. The club also played at North Road and Bank Street over their earlier years.  
  Manchester United badge  
  The club’s crest has also evolved over the years with the Red Devils using seven designs thus far in their history. Manchester United have kept with their current badge since 1998, while the Red Devil made its debut in the 1970s after its rise under the legendary Sir Matt Busby.  
  Kit history  
  Manchester United’s iconic red kit is one of the most recognisable sporting strips anywhere in the world. The club have experimented with the shade of the jersey over the years, along with white and blue away strips. In the early years, the club also used green and yellow tops.  
  League history  
  Manchester United have played in almost every division of English football throughout their history. The team first stepped foot into the First Division in 1906/07 after lifting the Second Division title. They often remained a regular before the Premier League was formed in 1992.  
  Since then, Manchester United have been a dominant force in the English game with a high of 13 Premier League titles. No team has won more league crowns all in than the Red Devils with 20, as well. While the club has also won the FA Cup 12 times and six EFL Cup trophies.  
  Manchester United trophies  
  Manchester United have won multiple trophies not least three European Cups, including an iconic treble-winning season in 1998/99. The Red Devils became the first, and only, side to lift a top-flight title, European Cup and FA Cup in one year under their legendary coach, Sir Alex Ferguson.  
  Players and managers  
  Manchester United’s history is filled with a raft of talented players and managers over the years. Matt Busby and Sir Alex Ferguson are two of the most iconic coaches to ever grace a touchline, with team’s success under the former leading to the nickname of the Busby Babes.  
  The Busby Babes earned their name after helping Manchester United rise from the ashes of World War II. Busby oversaw the club’s first trophy in almost 40 years with the 1948 FA Cup before adding a league crown in 1952. It sparked a dominant era in the Red Devils’ history.  
  Ferguson later oversaw another dominant era in Manchester United’s history from 1986 to 2013. The Scot led the Red Devils to two European cups, 13 Premier League titles and five FA Cup crowns. They even won the top-flight three seasons in a row twice under his watch.  
  Iconic players like Sir Bobby Charlton, Denis Law and Ryan Giggs have also left their mark on Manchester United’s history. No player has yet featured for the Red Devils more often than Giggs with 949 appearances. While Wayne Rooney is the club’s record goalscorer with 253.  
  The Official Manchester United Online Store is your premier source for authentic Manchester United kits and merchandise to support your club. Suit up like your favourite Man United heroes when you watch the next match with newly released 2023-24 Manchester United kits in sizes for men, women and youth, available in the widest assortment here at the Manchester United store. No supporter’s wardrobe is complete without the Manchester United away kit and third kit, and true Red Devils can take it up a notch with the Man United training range. Show your allegiance to popular Man United heroes like Marcus Rashford, Bruno Fernandes and all the rest. Man United football shirts are just the start of our range of merchandise – you’re also sure to find the best Manchester United gifts and collectibles within our assortment. No matter what you need for the season, the Manchester United Store is the place to find it. The Manchester United Online Store is committed to bringing you the easiest, most stress-free shopping experience online. Contact our dedicated customer service team for any concerns, or find answers to frequently asked questions in the customer service navigation tool.  
  England boss Gareth Southgate favourite to replace Erik ten Hag at Manchester United - Paper Talk  
  Plus: Newcastle striker Alexander Isak drops a hint about his future; Man Utd receive assurances from UEFA they will be able to play alongside Nice in the Europa League; Jose Mourinho says he is open to working in Saudi Arabia  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 08:14, UK  
  The top stories and transfer rumours from Wednesday's newspapers...  
  THE SUN  
  Manchester United will look to bring England's entire coaching staff to Old Trafford this summer, SunSport can reveal. Gareth Southgate is now the red-hot favourite to replace Erik ten Hag if the Dutchman is axed at the end of the season.  
  Manchester United fans face travel hell for Saturday's Premier League clash at Brentford because of train strikes.  
  Nike have come under fire for the size of the cockerel emblem on the new France shirt, sparking another kit controversy after they were slammed for changing the colours of the St George's Cross on the new England strip.  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Sky Sports' Peter Smith discusses Erik ten Hag's position in charge of Man Utd and whether it is under threat with new Man Utd investor Sir Jim Ratcliffe reportedly considering hiring England boss Gareth Southgate.  
  DAILY MAIL  
  Chelsea's ever-evolving medical department is set for another addition with the club now seeking a new head of performance medicine amid a Premier League season plagued by injuries.  
  Also See:  
  French World Cup winner Frank Leboeuf has questioned Didier Deschamps for snubbing William Saliba.  
  Manchester United have received assurances from UEFA that they will be allowed to take part in the Europa League next season if Nice also qualify despite the European governing body's restrictions on multi-club ownership.  
  Newcastle star Alexander Isak has dropped a major hint about his future at the club ahead of the summer window admitting 'if things show up, things can happen.'  
  Manchester United reportedly want to speak to Wolves manager Gary O'Neil about a potential coaching role at Old Trafford.  
  The Football Association of Ireland has ruled out Roberto Di Matteo as a candidate for the national team's next permanent manager.  
  Conor Benn's route back to fighting on home soil may have been dealt a blow after UK Anti-Doping and the British Boxing Board of Control won an appeal against the verdict to lift his temporary suspension.  
  DAILY MIRROR  
  Jose Mourinho has suggested he would consider taking a job in Saudi Arabia because Cristiano Ronaldo has opened his eyes to the possibilities in the country.  
  THE GUARDIAN  
  Anti-racism campaigners in Spain have called on the country's institutions to do more to crack down on racism in football, after Real Madrid winger Vinícius Júnior laid bare the personal toll exacted by years of racist insults.  
  THE ATHLETIC  
  Inter Milan defender Francesco Acerbi will face no action after the investigation into an alleged racist remark he made towards Napoli's Juan Jesus conclude there was insufficient evidence to take the matter further.  
  EVENING STANDARD  
  Tottenham defender Cristian Romero has expressed a desire to play for Argentina at the Olympics this summer.  
  THE TIMES  
  Harlequins are increasingly confident that Danny Care will reject a final payday in France and instead sign a contract extension to end his career at the club. The 37-year-old scrum half called time on his England career on Monday having won the last of his 101 caps during the Six Nations.  
  Marcus Rashford has been playing through injury for over a month. The winger has been carrying a "slight knock" since February's FA Cup clash with Nottingham Forest.  
  THE TELEGRAPH  
  Gareth Southgate has defended playing John Stones despite his injury scare for Manchester City.  
  DAILY RECORD  
  Former QPR sporting director Les Ferdinand has revealed how things turned 'toxic' at the London club after Michael Beale left for Rangers in 2022.  
  You can now start receiving messages and alerts for the latest breaking sports news, analysis, in-depth features and videos from our dedicated WhatsApp channel!  
  ‘It just came out’: Eric Cantona reveals inspiration for 1995 seagulls comment  
  Former Manchester United star says his near-30-year silence on subject has been his revenge on the press  
  It was one of the most baffling utterances ever made by a footballer.  
  When Eric Cantona said at a 1995 press conference: “When the seagulls follow the trawler, it is because they think sardines will be thrown into the sea,” everyone was left scratching their heads.  
  What on earth did it mean? Was Cantona not only a star striker but a philosopher to boot? All he would say by way of explanation was: it meant what it meant.  
  Now, after decades of speculation and analysis, the 57-year-old has said it was just the first thing that came into his head after he was forced to speak to journalists. And his almost 30-year silence on the subject was a sort of revenge against the press who he said had “destroyed” him.  
  The former footballer turned photographer, actor, documentary maker, sports’ coach, poet and now singer made his supposedly profound seagulls and sardines statement after being ordered to speak to the press to explain his notorious kung-fu kick on an abusive Crystal Palace fan at an away game at Selhurst Park in January 1995.  
  Cantona was banned until the end of the season and narrowly avoided being sent to jail for assault after a two-week prison sentence was reduced to community service. However, the press had a field day.  
  Manchester United were criticised for taking 36 hours to ban him, while the Mirror described it as “the night football died of shame” and called Cantona “the madman” and the Express accused him of “absolute thuggery in front of children”. Brian Clough, the outspoken former Nottingham Forest manager, said of the player that he would have “cut his balls off”.  
  The kick was shown 93 times on television over the following two days. Cantona would later say he had just one regret: “I would have loved to have kicked him harder.”  
  Appearing this week on the popular French chatshow C dans l’air to perform a song from his new album, Cantona laughed as he recalled how the phrase had thrown the British press into a frenzy.  
  “After the [court] judgment they [Manchester United] absolutely wanted me to speak to the press. I didn’t want to but they said it’s important you have to speak to the press. So I said, OK I will speak to the press, in the sense that they want me to speak – I’ll say any old thing.  
  “They wanted me to speak, I spoke. It just came out and then I left. And the press, they all tried to find a sense to it and make it all philosophical. You know, it just came out like that; maybe it came from my subconscious and maybe unconsciously it created a sense, but the best sense of it was, you make me speak, I speak and who cares whether the words make sense.”  
  Cantona – who scored 82 goals for United and won four league titles and two doubles – added: “You know, they [the press] destroyed me. But in a way I have had my revenge. They were all trying to find a meaning and they all asked me to explain and I said nothing.”  
  The seagulls feature in his song I Love You So Much from his recently released album, Cantona Sings Eric. The song is dedicated to Manchester and he performed it to a rapturous audience in the city last October at his first official concert.  
  “[The people of Manchester] gave me so much, I wanted to give something back. Manchester in the 1990s was Manchester United,” Cantona told C dans l’air, adding: “We were rock stars. I grew up, spent time with the club that succeeded and won after 26 years without titles, it was such a hopeful town and still is now.”  
  The star, who played himself in the 2009 Ken Loach film Looking for Eric and has never knowingly undersold himself, added: “I sing ‘then the press called me the greatest philosopher … and I think they were completely right’. And they were right.”  
  More on this story  
  More on this story  
  Archive, 1993: Manchester United exit Europe at Galatasaray – match report  
  Manchester faithful lap up Eric Cantona’s raspy whisper and jazz groove  
  ‘I can do everything but be humble’: Eric Cantona on his surprise new music career  
  The United Way review – Eric Cantona’s over-simple Manchester United history  
  Eric Cantona and 'the hooligan': the impact of the kung-fu kick 25 years on  
  Eric Cantona: ‘Big democracies are, in a way, dictatorships’  
  Eric Cantona speech: humans 'will become eternal' – unless crime or war intervene  
  Eric Cantona sings with his family every morning. Should we all do the same?  
  Erik ten Hag secure at Manchester United until at least end of the season  
  Dutchman’s future had been in spotlight amid difficult season  
  Ten Hag has impressed minority owner Sir Jim Ratcliffe so far  
  Erik ten Hag is to remain as Manchester United manager until at least the end of the season, with the Dutchman so far impressing Sir Jim Ratcliffe.  
  Sunday’s 4-3 FA Cup quarter-final win over Liverpool came with Ten Hag under extreme pressure due to the competition being United’s last chance of silverware this season.  
  Victory means the campaign is alive until the Cup semi-final weekend, as a minimum. With the Premier League season ending a month later and United potentially reaching a second successive Cup final if they beat Coventry at Wembley, it is understood that the assessment of Ratcliffe – who oversees the club’s football operations – and his key lieutenant, Sir Dave Brailsford, is that Ten Hag should be given until the end of the term before any long-term decision is made regarding his future.  
  Ten Hag is involved in discussions regarding the squad and planning for the summer transfer market as Ratcliffe and Brailsford wish to allow him maximum input.  
  While Ten Hag’s contract will have a year left in the close season, Ratcliffe is aware that finding a replacement, should he to decide to do so, is a challenge.  
  Regarding Gareth Southgate being a candidate, the Guardian has been told that though the England manager is admired by Ratcliffe and Brailsford, he is merely one of many in the game who enjoy this status.  
  "FC United" redirects here. For the women's football club from Jakobstad, Finland, see FC United (Jakobstad).  
  After ground-sharing between 2005 and 2014 with Bury at Gigg Lane, F.C. United opened their own ground, Broadhurst Park in north-east Manchester, in May 2015. The team was managed by Karl Marginson from its formation in 2005 until October 2017.[2] The current manager is Neil Reynolds, who took over as manager in October 2018 from David Chadwick who acted as temporary manager following Tom Greaves's resignation in August 2018.[3][4] The club's regular kit colours are red shirts, white shorts and black socks. Their badge is based on the Manchester coat of arms and features a ship at sea and three stripes for the three rivers that flow through Manchester.  
  After Heart of Midlothian and Exeter City, United is the third-largest fan-owned football club in the United Kingdom by number of members,[5] and has one of the highest home attendances in English non-league football. The club is democratically run by its members who have equal voting rights and own one share each in the club.  
  The club was founded in 2005 by disaffected supporters of Manchester United.[6] Although there were varying reasons for their dissatisfaction,[7][8] the catalyst for F.C. United's formation was the 12 May 2005 takeover of Manchester United by American businessman Malcolm Glazer.[9][10] Supporters first considered forming a breakaway club in 1998 during an attempted takeover of Manchester United by BSkyB.[11] The creation of F.C. United in the event of a Glazer buyout was first proposed in February 2005 by Manchester United fanzine Red Issue.[8][11]  
  Public meetings for fans were held on 19 May 2005 at the Central Methodist Hall in Manchester's Northern Quarter and on 30 May at the Apollo Theatre.[9] Subsequently, a steering group was created to set up the new club.[12] After the name "F.C. United" was rejected by The Football Association for being too generic, those who had pledged money to the club were asked to vote on a name.[13] On 14 June 2005, it was announced that "F.C. United of Manchester" had been chosen, beating "A.F.C. Manchester 1878", "Manchester Central", and "Newton Heath United",[13][14][15] and F.C. United were officially registered with the Manchester County Football Association on the same day.[16]  
  Karl Marginson was appointed as the club's manager on 22 June, and the club held trials for players four days later.[17][18] Around 900 players applied to take part in the trials, of whom 200 were chosen to take part and 17 selected to play for F.C. United.[19] Jonathan Mitten, great-nephew of Manchester United forward Charlie Mitten, was the club's first signing.[8]  
  F.C. United's inaugural members' meeting was held on 5 July 2005 at the Methodist Central Hall. Members voted on the club's constitution, badge, and core principles and elected the 11-member board.[20] By 6 July, over 4,000 people had pledged money to F.C. United and the club had over £100,000 in the bank.[21] During F.C. United's formation, the owners of Leigh RMI offered to merge the two clubs, but the parties decided against the idea.[22] F.C. United later arranged to play their first ever game against Leigh RMI on 16 July 2005; the match ended 0–0.[23]  
  For the 2005–06 season, F.C. United played in the Second Division of the North West Counties Football League (NWCFL), which is level ten of the English football league system and nine levels below the Premier League.[24] The club played its home matches at Bury's Gigg Lane.[24] F.C. United were ineligible to play in the FA Vase for their first season because the club was formed after the deadline to enter the competition. They were, however, able to play in the North West Counties League Challenge Cup.[25]  
  F.C. United's first competitive match was a 5–2 away victory against Leek County School Old Boys on 13 August 2005.[26] 2,590 people attended the game.[27] In its home debut on 20 August, the club defeated Padiham 3–2 with two goals from Rory Patterson.[28] During their first season, F.C. United consistently broke NWCFL attendance records. A crowd of 6,032 watched the team during their final home league match of the season against Great Harwood Town, which remains an NWCFL record as of 2016[update].[29] Despite losing that game 0–1, the team were promoted to Division One.[30]  
  F.C. United's successful 2006/07 season in Division One of the NWCFL earned the club a promotion to Division One North of the Northern Premier League.[31] They secured their second successive league title with a 7–1 win over Atherton Laburnum Rovers on 18 April 2007.[32] They then won their second cup of the season by beating Curzon Ashton 2–1 in the NWCFL's Challenge Cup final.[33] In the third round of the FA Vase competition, the club was eliminated when it lost 2–3 in the last minute of extra-time to Quorn.[34]  
  In 2007–08, F.C. United played in the inaugural season of the Northern Premier League (NPL) Division One North. They made their debut in the FA Cup that season, but lost 1–2 to Fleetwood Town in the first qualifying round.[35] They advanced to the final of the 2007–08 NPL President's Cup, in which they beat Radcliffe Borough 2–0 to pick up their fourth trophy in the three years following the club's formation.[36] The club finished the season second in the league, trailing champions Bradford Park Avenue by one point, and entered the play-offs for the other promotion place. After beating Bamber Bridge 3–2 in the semi-finals, F.C. United faced Skelmersdale United in the promotion play-off final, coming back from a goal down to win 4–1 and earn their third successive promotion to play in the Northern Premier League Premier Division.[37]  
  In 2008–09, F.C. United made their debut in the FA Trophy, reaching the third qualifying round, and missed out on a play-off place on the last day of the regular season.[38][39] In the 2009–10 season, they finished 13th in the league, their lowest league position in the first five seasons,[24] before progressing to the play-offs in 2010–11.[40] They beat Bradford Park Avenue 2–0 in the semi-finals but lost the final 0–1 to Colwyn Bay.[41][42] Earlier that season, F.C. United reached the first round of the FA Cup for the first time, recording victories over Radcliffe Borough, Gainsborough Trinity, Norton & Stockton Ancients and Barrow to play League One side Rochdale. They defeated Rochdale 3–2 after a late winner from Mike Norton,[43] and played eventual 2010–11 League One champions Brighton & Hove Albion in the second round. After a 1–1 away draw at Withdean Stadium, F.C. United lost the replay at Gigg Lane 0–4,[44] in front of their highest home attendance of 6,731.[45]  
  In the 2011–12 season, F.C. United reached the first round of the FA Trophy for the first time after knocking out Frickley Athletic, Durham City and Altrincham.[46][47] In the league, they qualified for the end of season play-offs, despite finishing 6th, due to the demotion of Northwich Victoria for breaching of financial rules.[48][49] They beat Chorley 2–0 in the play-off semi-final to qualify for consecutive play-off finals but lost 0–1 to Bradford Park Avenue in the penultimate minute of extra time.[50][51]  
  F.C. United finished third in the 2012–13 season to book a place in the play-offs.[52] They won 3–1 against Witton Albion in the semi-final,[53] but lost the final for the third consecutive time with a 1–2 defeat to Hednesford Town.[54] The following season, the club finished second in the league but lost in the play-offs in the semi-finals.[55][56] During the 2014–15 campaign, F.C. United reached the fourth round of the FA Trophy[57] and recorded a streak of 21 league games without a loss from December to April, including 16 victories.[58] They secured their promotion to the National League North following a 1–0 win against Stourbridge on 21 April 2015; after seven years of trying.[59] The club's top scorer for this championship winning season was Tom Greaves,[45] the same player who scored the winning goal for Bradford Park Avenue against F.C. United in the 2012 play-off final.[51]  
  F.C. United recorded their first victory in the National League North in a 3–2 home win over Brackley Town on 22 August 2015, which was the club's first competitive win at Broadhurst Park.[60] In October, for the second time in the club's history, they secured a place in the first round of the FA Cup with a 3–1 away win over Sporting Khalsa,[61] but were eliminated from the competition after a 4–1 home loss against Chesterfield.[62] In November, the club ended their cup runs for the 2015–16 season after two successive home defeats to Stalybridge Celtic 3–4 in the Manchester Premier Cup and to A.F.C. Telford United 1–2 in the FA Trophy.[63][64] Between September and November 2015, F.C. United lost seven consecutive league matches; their worst run ever as of April 2017[update].[45] They eventually finished the season in 13th place.[65]  
  The following 2016–17 season, the team again finished 13th and won the Manchester FA county cup for the first time in their history, beating Stalybridge Celtic 1–0 in the final.[66] After a poor start to the 2017–18 season, Karl Marginson, the team's first and only manager, left the club by mutual consent in October 2017.[2] He was replaced by forward Tom Greaves who took over on a temporary basis and was appointed permanent player-manager the next month.[67] F.C. United finished the season in 16th place and retained the Manchester FA county cup with a penalty shoot-out victory against Trafford F.C.[68] Greaves, who became the club's all-time record goal-scorer in December 2017, saw his contract extended until the end of the 2018–19 season.[69][70]  
  After a poor start to the 2018–19 season, Greaves left the club at the end of August 2018, with long-serving former player David Chadwick acting as interim manager.[71] In late October, the club appointed Neil Reynolds as first team manager.[72] On 22 April 2019, Easter Monday, FC United were relegated back to the Northern Premier League following a 1–2 home defeat to Blyth Spartans.[73]  
  F.C. United's club colours are red, white and black — the same colours worn by Manchester United.[74] The shirt bears no sponsorship logo, as it was written into the club's constitution that the club should not have a shirt sponsor.[75] The club's first kit was a plain red shirt, white shorts and plain black socks.[76] The club introduced a new home shirt for the 2007–08 season with a striped collar and striped ends on the sleeves which lasted until 2009.[77] This was changed for the 2009–11 seasons to a red shirt with a black and white stripe down the left side, manufactured by Admiral Sportswear.[78] For seasons 2011–13 the club reverted to a plain red shirt, manufactured by O'Neills.[79] At the start of the 2018–19 season, Errea replaced O'Neill's as kit supplier.[80]  
  The club's second kit, worn when playing away against a team with a predominantly red kit, is a white shirt, white shorts and socks.[81] The club has an alternative plain blue kit with the clenched fist logo and the words "Our Club Our Rules" on the shirt front for playing against a team with a red and white kit.[82] In past seasons white shirts with diagonal black or red stripes[76][83] and a white shirt with a red trim, black shorts and white socks have all been used as the second kits.[84]  
  The club's badge is red, white, black and yellow, and incorporates elements from the coat of arms of Manchester City Council; a ship representing Manchester's industry and three stripes representing the three rivers that flow through Manchester: the Irk, the Irwell and the Medlock.[16]  
  F.C. United play at the 4,400 capacity[1] Broadhurst Park, which opened in May 2015.[85] The ground was built at a cost of £6.3 million, using £2 million from a Community Share Scheme and the remainder from a variety of governmental and charity grants.[86] The ground is surrounded on all sides by covered stands: the St. Mary's Road End (east), the North Stand, the Lightbowne Road End (west) and the Main Stand (south), the latter of which has seating sections.[1] Within the Main Stand is a clubhouse with a bar and catering facilities, club offices, changing rooms, a medical suite and a classroom.[87] The stadium is shared with a local junior team, Moston Juniors F.C.[88]  
  From their foundation in 2005 until 2014, F.C. United were based at Bury F.C.'s Gigg Lane stadium. F.C. United's first proposed stadium was announced in 2010 for Newton Heath, the original home of Manchester United.[89] The development was planned to be located on the site of the Ten Acres Lane sports centre and would have cost £3.5 million, to be financed by public donations, a Community Shares issue and grant funding.[90] However a year later, in March 2011, Manchester City Council backed out from funding the stadium.[91] The Broadhurst Park site in Moston, north-east Manchester, was announced in April 2011.[92] Detailed information about the new facility was released in June 2011[93] and Manchester City Council approved the planning permission for the site on 27 October 2011.[94] F.C. United had to overcome some obstacles including funding agreements, contractor and lease negotiations and a legal challenge from local residents which caused a further two-year delay before building commenced in November 2013.[95]  
  For the 2014–15 season, F.C. United ended their groundsharing agreement with Bury after nine seasons in preparation for their move to Broadhurst Park. As the ground was not ready at the start of the season, they used Bower Fold as a temporary home. Delays with Broadhurst Park meant that F.C. United were unable to move in until May 2015, and following fixture clashes with Stalybridge Celtic the club moved in December 2014 to the Tameside Stadium for the remainder of the season.[103][104] F.C. United hosted a test event at Broadhurst Park on 16 May 2015, staging a short match between their first team and an Invitational XI made up of past players.[85] The official opening game was a friendly against Benfica B on 29 May,[105] the anniversary of Manchester United's victory over Benfica in the 1968 European Cup Final. Benfica won the opening game 1–0 in front of a crowd of 4,232.[106][107]  
  F.C. United are owned by around 2300 of their members and are the third [108] supporter-owned football club in the United Kingdom by number of members.[5] Each member can vote on how the club is run, including voting for board members, kit designs and season ticket prices.[11] F.C. United fans are known for the large range of songs that they sing at matches, and the atmosphere created by fans has been praised in the media.[109][110][111][112]  
  During their first season (2005–06), F.C. United had the second-highest average attendance in English non-League football with an average gate of 3,059 and were the 87th best supported club across all divisions.[113] Attendances fell in the next two seasons and they were the 92nd best supported club in 2006–07 and 100th best supported club by 2007–08.[114][115] Their average league attendance then levelled out at approximately 2,000 per game,[116] before rising to an average of 2,155 in 2014–15, the then-seventh highest attendance in non-League football.[117] After moving to Broadhurst Park in May 2015, the club averaged a gate of 3,394 in 2015–16, a season-on-season increase of over 57% and the fourth highest attendance in non-League football.[118]  
  F.C. United operate as a community benefit society.[6] Membership is obtained by paying an annual fee of £15 to the club (£3 for children) but each member receives only one share in the club and is entitled to a single vote at meetings, regardless of the amount donated.[119][120] The board consists of up to 11 members who are elected by the members of the club.[20] Day-to-day operations of the club are overseen by a Chief Executive Officer; Andy Walsh, a founding member of F.C. United, was appointed to the position in 2005.[5] He stepped down from the role at the end of June 2016.[121] Damian Chadwick, another founding member of the club, took up the position in November 2016. Chadwick stood down in 2018 and was replaced by Paul Smith.[122]  
  The club's manifesto includes the following core principles:[119]  
  The Board will be democratically elected by its members;  
  Decisions taken by the membership will be decided on a one-member, one vote basis;  
  The club will develop strong links with the local community and strive to be accessible to all, discriminating against none;  
  The club will endeavour to make admission prices as affordable as possible, to as wide a constituency as possible;  
  The club will encourage young, local participation—playing and supporting—whenever possible;  
  The Board will strive wherever possible to avoid outright commercialism;  
  The club will remain a non-profit organisation.  
  The club accepts sponsorship but does not allow sponsors' logos to be displayed on the team's shirts.[75] The club's main sponsor in its inaugural 2005–06 season was the Bhopal Medical Appeal and in the 2006–07 season it was the Williams BMW Group.[123][124] Between 2011–2016, F.C. United were sponsored by mxData, a Manchester-based mobile app development company.[75][125] In October 2014, F.C. United became the first football club in the United Kingdom to be accredited as a living wage employer by the Living Wage Foundation.[126]  
  F.C. United and their founders have been criticised and supported by fans of Manchester United and the media; some fans view those who chose to leave to follow F.C. United as "traitors".[127][128] Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson questioned the loyalty of fans who decided to form the club and the motivation behind the forming of F.C. United in a 2006 book:[129]  
  I'm sorry about that. It is a bit sad, that part, but I wonder just how big a United supporter they are. They seem to me to be promoting or projecting themselves a wee bit rather than saying, "at the end of the day the club have made a decision, we'll stick by them." It's more about them than us.  
  — Sir Alex Ferguson, The Official Manchester United Diary of the Season (2006)  
  Former Manchester United forward Eric Cantona has supported the club, describing them as "having a great idea" and expressing hope that F.C. United will "become a great club and win the European Cup in 50 years' time".[130] In 2010, aged 43, he said that he would be prepared to play for the club.[131] Steve Coppell, Manchester United winger between 1975 and 1983, joined the club as a co-owner in April 2016.[132]  
  F.C. United have been criticised by their own members for abandoning their principles, including agreeing to a photo op with a Conservative Party government minister in October 2015, despite a club policy not to be used for political promotion, and a day after some club members took part in a march against government cuts in Manchester.[133][134] F.C. United defended the visit as "an essential part" of the development of financial vehicles for football fans, arguing that it will help government representatives to better understand the benefits and challenges of social investment.[135]  
  The club's programme editor resigned from his position in June 2015 over a one-off price rise of the programme for Broadhurst Park's opening game against Benfica the previous month; a Board decision that was described as breaching the club's founding principle of avoiding outright commercialism.[133][134] F.C. United were also criticised at the time for a deficit in democracy, transparency and accountability between their officials and the membership.[133][134]  
  In 2016, protests by supporters led to several board members stepping down and an Emergency General Meeting (EGM) to elect a new board was subsequently called. The protests culminated in several fans invading the pitch during the last home game of the 2015–16 season, calling for the remaining board members deemed responsible for the lack of democracy and transparency at the club to resign.[136] Three board members resigned within a week of the on-pitch protest,[137] along with the club's Press and Communications Officer.[138] On 5 June, the EGM took place and a new board of 11 members were elected, leading to "a sense of progression and an air of optimism" among the club's members.[136]  
  The record for the most appearances for F.C. United is held by Jerome Wright, with 400 as of March 2018[update].[45] Tom Greaves is the club's all-time record goal-scorer with 102 goals in all competitions, which includes 86 in the league and 16 in cup matches as of January 2018[update].[139] Six other players, Rory Patterson, Mike Norton, Matthew Wolfenden, Jerome Wright, Simon Carden and Stuart Rudd have also scored more than 50 goals for the club.[45] Rudd holds the record for most goals scored in a single season, having scored 45 goals in the 2006–07 season.[140]  
  The largest number of points the team accrued is 112 in the 2006–07 season, and the highest number of goals scored in a season is 157, achieved in 42 matches in 2006–07.[141] The club's best performance in the FA Cup was a second round appearance during the 2010–11 season. After a 3–2 first round win over Rochdale, F.C. United recorded a 1–1 away draw with Brighton & Hove Albion, forcing a home replay which they lost 0–4.[44] The team has since advanced to the first round of the FA Cup twice, losing 1–4 in 2015–16 to Chesterfield[62] and 1–5 in 2020–21 to Doncaster Rovers.  
  In the 2006–07 season, F.C. United reached the third round of the FA Vase, beating Padiham and Salford City in the first two rounds but lost 2–3 at home to Quorn after extra time.[34] In the 2014–15 season, they progressed to the fourth round of the FA Trophy, defeating Harrogate Town, Chorley and AFC Fylde in the first three rounds before losing 0–1 away to Torquay United.[142]  
  The club's record league victory was a 10–2 win over Castleton Gabriels on 10 December 2005 in the North West Counties Football League Division Two; Simon Carden scored five of the goals, which is the club record for the highest number of goals scored by a player in a single game.[140] F.C. United achieved eight-goal victory margins on three further occasions, in 8–0 wins over Squires Gate, Glossop North End and Nelson, all during the 2006–07 season.[45] The club's heaviest league defeat is 0–6 away to Harrogate Town on 10 March 2018 in the National League North.[45]  
  F.C. United's highest home attendances are 6,731 against Brighton in the second round of the 2010–11 FA Cup on 8 December 2010 and 6,023 against Great Harwood Town in the North West Counties Football League Division Two on 22 April 2006, both at Gigg Lane.[45]  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Upon its formation, F.C. United appointed Karl Marginson as its manager. He led the team to four promotions, three league titles, two league cups and a county cup. He left the club by mutual consent in October 2017 after a poor start to the 2017–18 season. He was replaced by forward Tom Greaves who took on the role of a caretaker player-manager, a decision that was made permanent on 21 November 2017.[2][148][67] He was subsequently replaced by Dave Chadwick as Caretaker Manager in August 2018 when he resigned.[3] Neil Reynolds is the current manager of the club having been in position since 18 October 2018, taking over from Chadwick.  
  Information correct after match played on 12 March 2022.[149] Only competitive matches are counted.  
  Key  
  Names of caretaker managers are supplied where known, and the names of caretaker managers are highlighted in italics and marked with an asterisk (*).  
  Names of player-managers are supplied where known, and are marked with a double-dagger (‡).  
  F.C. United have won three league titles, two league cups and two county cups in their history.[155]  
  F.C. United's women's team competed for the first time in the 2012–13 season. They finished second in the Greater Manchester Women's Football League behind Manchester City Ladies.[157] They also reached the GMWFL League Cup final but lost 0–1 to Manchester City Ladies.[157] After finishing runners-up again in 2013–14,[158] the team won a league and cup double in 2015, gaining promotion to the North West Women's Regional Football League Division One South.[159] They finished runners-up in the two following seasons, behind MSB Woolton Ladies in 2015–16 and Merseyrail Bootle in 2016–17, winning a league and county cup in the latter season.[160][161][162] In 2017–18, the team won their first Treble, defending the league and county cups and securing a promotion to the North West Women's Regional Football League Premier Division after an unbeaten league campaign.[163][164][165] After two seasons that were curtailed by the COVID-19 pandemic with no promotion or relegation,[166] F.C. United were among various women's teams that gained promotion through an application process. As a result, the team reached the 4th division for the first time in their history.[167]  
  F.C. United of Manchester Women's league and cup history  
  ^ The 2019–20 season was cancelled partway through due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the FA ruled that league results would be expunged for Tiers 3 to 7.  
  ^ Due to the season's results being expunged, there were no goals officially recorded  
  ^ The 2020–21 season was ruled as incomplete, with the club gaining promotion though the FA's application process.  
  ^ Matt Rickard (5 July 2005). "United We Stand". ESPN. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 12 July 2005.  
  ^ a b Robert Brady (2006). An Undividable Glow – The story of FCUM's first season. Manchester: Rubberybubberyboy Parchment. pp. 37, 39, 43, 51, 68. ISBN 978-0-9553620-0-2.  
  ^ "Steering Group Announcement". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 3 June 2005. Archived from the original on 15 March 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ a b Howard, Tony (5 October 2005). "The rise and rise of F.C. United". The Guardian. Guardian News and Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2011.  
  ^ Stuart Brennan (22 June 2005). "Karl the man for Red rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 1 June 2016.  
  ^ "F.C. United Player Trials". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 21 June 2005. Archived from the original on 26 February 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ "F.C. United Trials a Success". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 28 June 2005. Archived from the original on 4 March 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ Brennan Stuart (6 July 2005). "Mitten's family affair". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 8 July 2005.  
  ^ Stuart Brennan (22 July 2005). "The Direct route for FC United". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ a b c "F.C. United history". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 23 January 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ Tony Howard (22 September 2006). "To the next step". The Guardian. Guardian News and Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 3 October 2011.  
  ^ Tony Glennon (19 August 2005). "Rebels on new ground". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 19 May 2016.  
  ^ Tony Glennon (22 August 2005). "Rory's double is no mystery". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 19 May 2016.  
  ^ a b "FCUM out of FA Vase". BBC News. 13 December 2006. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2010.  
  ^ Robson, James (18 April 2008). "Cup win is part one of double for Rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Brennan, Stuart (26 November 2008). "F.C. United 1 Boston United 3". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2010.  
  ^ Partington, Richard (28 April 2011). "Final push by FC's nomads". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 26 March 2016. Retrieved 31 May 2016.  
  ^ Partington, Richard (5 May 2011). "We'll be back". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Ostick, Chris (12 December 2011). "Droylsden backed to keep shocking giants". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Vermiglio, Jamie (30 April 2012). "Red Rebels shatter Chorley's dreams". The Lancashire Evening Post. Johnston Publishing. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 7 May 2012.  
  ^ "Heartbreak for Rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. 13 May 2013. Archived from the original on 31 May 2016. Retrieved 31 May 2016.  
  ^ Collins, Ben (29 April 2014). "Rebel Reds are finally aiming to be up for it". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 51 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Collins, Ben (30 April 2014). "Late strikes fire Ashton into final". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 53 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Ben Collins (28 January 2015). "Rebels ready to host Benfica at new home". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 49 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Amy Glendinning (16 September 2010). "FC United reveal stadium plans". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 23 December 2014. Retrieved 1 June 2016.  
  ^ Clark, Wayne (25 February 2006). "F.C. United 4–1 Holker Old Boys". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 30 August 2011.  
  ^ Fullen, Victoria (5 September 2010). "F.C. United 1–5 Matlock Town". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 30 August 2011.  
  ^ "Rebels' first game at their new home". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. 20 December 2014. p. 44 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Simon Donohue (5 December 2006). "F.C. United hires ad agency". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 19 September 2011.  
  ^ Brennan, Stuart (5 September 2006). "Fergie lays into F.C. United". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2011.  
  ^ a b "Records and trophies". F.C. United of Manchester in Russia. Archived from the original on 3 April 2016. Retrieved 11 May 2016.  
  ^ a b "First Team Squad". F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 4 December 2020. Retrieved 19 August 2021.  
  ^ "Karl Marginson". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ a b "Tom Greaves". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "David Chadwick". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "Neil Reynolds". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "Reserve Squad". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 13 November 2015. Archived from the original on 11 March 2016. Retrieved 13 November 2015.  
  ^ "F.C. United honours". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 8 April 2016. Retrieved 24 April 2011.  
  FC United of Manchester FC United of Manchester FC United of Manchester  
  We are delighted to announce a second race night of the season, which will take place following our game against Bamber Bridge on Saturday 13th April in the main bar. The night will begin at 7pm with all proceeds going to the club!  
  KitAid are to hold a kit collection event ahead of FC United's home league fixture against Bamber Bridge at Broadhurst Park on Saturday 13th April 2024.The charity collects in pre-owned football kit and then re-distributes it to under-privileged children and young adults in many of the world's poorest countries.  
  On Monday 1st April our Men’s Team welcome Ashton United to Broadhurst Park. On the back of our bumper crowd for the recent Community Day, we’re looking to keep up the momentum for our final 3 home games of the season. 3pm kick-off.  
  On Sunday 31st March our Women’s Team welcome Middlesbrough Women to Broadhurst Park. As the game falls on Easter Sunday, there will be a Juniors Easter party in the main bar before the game.  
  The 2024 General Meeting of FC United of Manchester will take place on Thursday 23 May 2024, at Broadhurst Park, 310 Lightbowne Road, Moston, Manchester M40 0FJ at 7:00pm.  
  Firstly, apologies for the delay in this month’s update. We’ve been waiting on various things and this piece has been written and rewritten numerous times! But we finally got there in the end, so here’s February’s update…  
  FREE TO ATTEND: For forward thinking businesses, the event will have a futuristic feel to it, and one not to be missed. With guest speakers Paul Haworth (FC United) and Mark Armstrong (inTEC Business).  
  We’re delighted to announce that season tickets for the men's team's 2024/25 season are now on sale. Buy yours today to enter our monthly prize draws and support the biggest fully fan-owned club in the country as we celebrate our 20th season!  
  We are giving FC United supporters the opportunity to own a match-worn men's team player shirt from the 23/24 season. Red home shirts, white and yellow away shirts and a one goalie shirt are all up for grabs.  
  Cookie banner  
  We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from. To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy. Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.  
  By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  
  Daily Schmankerl: The aftermath of Germany vs. the Netherlands; Chelsea still monitoring Bayern Munich’s Jamal Musiala; Real Madrid wants more of Toni Kroos; Leroy Sané back to Manchester City?; FC Barcelona to extend Ronald Araújo?; & MORE!  
  Share this story  
  Share All sharing options for: Daily Schmankerl: The aftermath of Germany vs. the Netherlands; Chelsea still monitoring Bayern Munich’s Jamal Musiala; Real Madrid wants more of Toni Kroos; Leroy Sané back to Manchester City?; FC Barcelona to extend Ronald Araújo?; & MORE!  
  Just when you thought you were out, the German national team is pulling you back in.  
  With a resurgent Bayern Munich trying to make one last run at glory on the club scene, the German national team has risen from the ashes to show that it just might be a contender for the EUROs this summer.  
  After dispatching France on Saturday, the Germans outlasted the Dutch 2-1 in a thoroughly impressive victory.  
  Let’s not waste any more time, here are some quick hitters on the match:  
  As always, let’s start with Julian Nagelsmann’s starting XI:  
  As expected, Nagelsmann kept things exactly the same. It seems as if the coach has found an XI he likes and wants to build off of it.  
  Joey Veerman put the Netherlands up 1-0 in the 4th minute with a perfectly placed volley just outside the reach of Marc-André ter Stegen for a quick goal. Memphis Depay sent the ball in and took advantage of some lax defending from the Germans.  
  Germany appeared stunned for a few minutes. Like a boxer, who had taken a massive shot, Germany somehow climbed up off of the canvas and got back to work. It took a bit, but the Germans woke up in a big way.  
  Maximilian Mittelstädt rifled a shot into the net for a goal to tie the game. What a moment it was for the VfB Stuttgart man.  
  There was a genuine energy and life in the match for Germany after that. The Dutch were game as well, which made the contest a fantastic one to watch.  
  Ter Stegen was a bit shaky. In the 19th minute, he nearly gifted Netherlands another good chance by tipping a ball out into danger that he should have probably handled cleanly.  
  Germany was playing with a purpose and with some fight and pride. It was refreshing to watch.  
  Jamal Musiala had some slipping issues. Someone needs to check those cleats! Really, though, the whole surface seemed slick for everyone and Bavarian Grass Works should investigate.  
  The Dutch were super-aggressive with their style of play. It was almost as if they were banking on Germany eventually cracking under the pressure…but it never happened.  
  I don’t know how Germany can remove Florian Wirtz or Jamal Musiala from the lineup. If Nagelsmann truly is intent on starting Leroy Sané, he is going to have to send his captain, İlkay Gündoğan, to the bench or go striker-less.  
  Germany looked organized and fierce...it was really impressive.  
  If there is a fair critique of Germany’s play, it is that there tends to be a gap behind the midfield and in front of the backline that seems to be ripe for a team to eventually expose.  
  Germany’s press was effective and disruptive.  
  Matthijs de Ligt sent a header across the face of the goal that probably should have resulted in a score for the Dutch. Donyell Malen could not do enough to get out on the end of it before it was cleared.  
  The Netherlands was a little more authoritative and controlling to start the second half, but Germany rallied.  
  Mittelstädt has added some fight and physicality to his game, which is a welcome sight. He definitely won some fans and will likely have some Bayern Munich supporters calling on him as a replacement for Alphonso Davies, should the Canadian leave this summer.  
  Depay should have given the Dutch the lead in the 61st minute.  
  In the 68th minute, Chris Führich sent in a beautiful cross, but Kai Havertz could not get on the end of it. Führich was excellent and total difference maker for Germany.  
  After some great passing, Musiala was on the end of a chance that should have been a goal. The youngster just could not place his shot where he likely wanted to. That would have been massive in the 77th minute.  
  Musiala did looked cooked at that point in the game, though. Nagelsmann might have done well to take him out. Later, he would slip again in a very advantageous position, which would have resulted in a good chance. Aside of the slick field and his cleats not being able to get a grip, Musiala’s legs were probably weary.  
  Thomas Müller almost won the game for Germany in the 83rd minute, but Bart Verbruggen made a fantastic save.  
  In the 86th minute — after sustained pressure — Germany broke through to take the lead. A corner from Toni Kroos hit Niclas Füllkrug in the shoulder and it somehow got over the line enough to count for a score. What a crazy sequence after a dominant run of play for Germany.  
  Wout Weghorst should have tied the game in extra time, but he mishit his attempt.  
  Overall, what a two-game set from Germany. Julian Nagelsmann is proving his doubters wrong (I know I did not think he could be effective in this format) and he is drawing the best from the German squad. The energy, intensity, ferocity, and teamwork was just incredible to witness after the team was in the doldrums for so long. You really could not ask for much more at this point from the team or its coach.  
  Chelsea FC let Jamal Musiala walk off campus once before, but it seems like the London club realized its mistake.  
  Now, Chelsea wants to bring its former charge back into the fold:  
  Chelsea continue to track the contract talks of Bayern Munich midfielder Jamal Musiala along with fellow Premier League giants Liverpool.  
  At 21 years old, Musiala is already one of the most talented midfielders in the game, but with a contract that expires in 2026, a window of opportunity is potentially opening for him to be taken away from the Bundesliga side.  
  Bayern, as well as Chelsea and Liverpool, are acutely aware of this and working to tie him down to a new contract.  
  If Chelsea is serious about Musiala, it could appeal to the player to return “home” and lead the club back to some sort of glory. Could something like that convince the youngster to make the move back to London?  
  Harry Kane captains the English national team, but is not exactly targeting the armband at Bayern Munich to add to his collection.  
  That is not to say that Kane would shy away from the duty, but he says those decision happen organically.  
  “It just happens. We have a few leaders in the team — it depends on the coach and the club. If there’s a game where our captains are unavailable, I would be proud to wear the armband for this club. But I’m not thinking about that at the moment. I’m always the same player, regardless of whether I’m captain or not. I train, speak and play the same way. And that won’t change,” Kane said.  
  An interesting point brought by our own RLD is that Bayern Munich actually has been tied to three captains for the Three Lions — Kane, Kyle Walker, and Declan Rice. That appears to be the captain pecking order for England, which came to light with the injuries to Kane and Walker.  
  Bayern Munich will be back in action later this on the field, but there is much going on in the boardroom these days.  
  While all of that is going on, the German national team is looking like they could potentially have something cooking. Therefore, we have much to talk about.  
  This is what we have on tap for this episode:  
  After some times to process it all, more thoughts on Germany’s 2-0 win over France and why it seems like Julian Nagelsmann could be close to unlocking something with this German side.  
  Reports are breaking that Bayern Munich wants an answer from Alphonso Davies by next week. Will the Canadian take the best-and-final offer from the Bavarians or will he set sights on a move this summer...maybe to Real Madrid?  
  One year after Nagelsmann was unceremoniously sacked at Bayern Munich, the fallout is still being felt. Let’s discuss where things stand and how much longer that move might affect the club.  
  Chelsea and Paris Saint-Germain could be competing for Napoli striker Victor Osimhen:  
  Chelsea are still leading the race to sign Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, whose price tag has been set at £111m. Paris Saint-Germain are also keen on the 25-year-old.  
  Bayern Munich president Herbert Hainer says that the club is going to take its time during its coaching search.  
  “Now we have some time to look around, and that’s what we’re going to do. We have now changed three coaches within a not too long period of time. We want to work with a coach in the long term. We will think about and analyze this very carefully — and hopefully get the right one. We want to find a coach in calm, and when we have found him, we will announce it,” Hainer said.  
  Even during the international break, the Bavarians are feeling the wrath of the injury gods. Even aside of that, though, Max Eberl seems to have ramped up his planning for the 2024/25 campaign, so there is a lot going on.  
  Why waste any more time, let’s get to it. Here is what we have on tap for this episode:  
  Bodies are dropping at Germany’s national team camp — and at Bayern Munich. Let’s talk about the impact of Manuel Neuer’s latest ailment, Sacha Boey’s injury, and what this might mean for the rest of the club season.  
  Could Bayern Munich bring Julian Nagelsmann back as its coach?  
  Some final thoughts on the German national team’s upcoming slate.  
  Bayern Munich reportedly made its best-and-final offer to Alphonso Davies, which tops out at €13 million per season. Is that enough? Will Real Madrid top that?  
  Enough with these Ronald Araújo rumors.  
  Why are Joshua Kimmich and Leon Goretzka so hated? How real is it that both will leave this summer?  
  Breaking down another hilarious episode of Curb Your Enthusiasm.  
  Bayern Munich executive Max Eberl knows that the club can’t always spend big — and he does not want to get into that habit. However, the “new guy” will also not shy away from such a move if it is right for the moment.  
  “Bayern Munich can’t do that all the time. Now Harry Kane has proven his worth for Bayern, but we can’t make such transfers all the time and maybe we don’t even want to. We want to build a team, development and success, that’s really what we need to achieve here. And yet, there are very, very good players who maybe don’t cost 100 million, who don’t cost 80 million. We have to find this mix,” Eberl said. “We simply have to build a good team with our financial means, which I then look at and which Mr. Dreesen and Mr. Diederich then give me. Mathys Tel, Aleksandar Pavlović, great, the way he plays the games, with self-confidence at the age of 19, Jamal Musiala – we have these players and we would like to have more of them.”  
  Real Madrid has liked what it has seen from Toni Kroos this season and wants the 34-year-old to ink a new deal:  
  Real Madrid are reportedly hoping to keep Toni Kroos at the club for another season. Despite his age and the rise of Real’s young midfielders such as Jude Bellingham, Eduardo Camavinga and Aurelien Tchouameni, Kroos has still made 38 appearances this season, although his contract expires at the end of the campaign.  
  And, according to Fabrizio Romano, Real would like to extend that deal, with Carlo Ancelotti’s side confident about their prospects of doing so.  
  The German national team had not really fired on all cylinders for, well, years.  
  With deflating performance after deflating performance, there was very little reason for hope...until now!  
  While it is just one match, the Germans were able to outgun France 2-0 for a convincing away win. Clearly, there was a lot to talk about and with Jack Laushway making his Bavarian Podcast Works debut to help break this one down, we went all-in!  
  This is what we have on tap for this episode:  
  A look at Julian Nagelsmann’s starting XI and how those players performed.  
  A rundown of the scoring and subs.  
  Some thoughts on Germany’s blazing start to the match and that laser of a goal from Florian Wirtz.  
  Kai Havertz proved he up to the task after an iffy first half (with some major help from Bayern Munich’s Jamal Musiala).  
  Joshua Kimmich vs. Kylian Mbappé.  
  Who was impactful and who might not have turned in their best effort.  
  Some final thoughts on the impressive victory (is this a cause for hope?) and why this was incredibly important to Nagelsmann and the players alike.  
  Leroy Sané seems pretty set on a contract extension with Bayern Munich, but there is some thought that Manchester City could be seeking to bring back its old charge:  
  Bayern Munich and Germany star Leroy Sane has been linked with a potential return to Manchester City this summer, four years after quitting the club for the Bundesliga.  
  The 28-year-old left Manchester City for Bayern Munich in a £54.8 million move in July 2020, leaving the Etihad Stadium after four years, having initially moved to the Premier League for £37 million from Schalke.  
  Bayern Munich and Germany star Leroy Sane has been linked with a potential return to Manchester City this summer, four years after quitting the club for the Bundesliga.  
  The 28-year-old left Manchester City for Bayern Munich in a £54.8 million move in July 2020, leaving the Etihad Stadium after four years, having initially moved to the Premier League for £37 million from Schalke.  
  The forward made 135 appearances and won seven trophies with the Sky Blues, but featured just twice during his final campaign at Manchester City after suffering an ACL injury against Liverpool in the FA Community Shield.  
  According to the information of Manchester City insider ‘Tolmie’s Hairdoo’ on X, the 28-year-old is interested in a potential return to the Etihad Stadium this summer, with the forward wanting to ‘come home’ after four years in Germany.  
  The forward is the third Bayern Munich star to be linked with a move to east Manchester ahead of the new season, with both Joshua Kimmich and Jamal Musiala widely reported as possible targets.  
  Hold on...what? Here is the original tweet:  
  Lots of potential business between City and @FCBayernEN this summer. Kimmich, Musiala, Cancelo. But one to keep an interesting eye on...Leroy Sane wants to come "home". Would you? Would Pep?  
  — The Real Tolmie's Hairdoo (@RealTolmie) March 24, 2024  
  Well...maybe the most recent reports from Germany linking the winger to a contract extension in Germany are a little more concrete?  
  Anyway, it is food for thought if the negotiations go south for whatever reason between Sané and Bayern.  
  Bayern Munich has been linked to Ronald Araújo for months, but it seems like FC Barcelona would like to extend his deal:  
  It is no secret that Barcelona want to assure Ronald Araujo’s continuity beyond his ongoing contract. The 25-year-old Uruguayan, who is a subject of interest for Bayern Munich, has a contract with Barcelona until 2026 and the team from from Catalonia wants to resolve the entire matter before the end of the season.  
  Leading up to the story, a report from Mundo Deportivo has affirmed that there is a growing sense of optimism within the team that Araujo will extend his contract sooner rather than later. Araujo stands as a pillar of Barcelona, and the club is keen on maintaining this status for the foreseeable future. Disregarding Bayern Munich’s €90 million offer, which was turned down earlier this year, the Uruguayan is viewed as a vital asset to Barcelona’s sporting ambitions.  
  Consequently, negotiations to extend his current contract beyond 2026 rank high on the agenda of the club’s top brass.  
  Loading comments...  
  Sign up for the newsletter Sign up for the Bavarian Football Works Daily Roundup newsletter!  
  A daily roundup of Bayern Munich news from Bavarian Football Works  
  Thanks for signing up!  
  Check your inbox for a welcome email.  
  Email (required)  
  Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.  
  Golden goal: Wayne Rooney for Manchester United v Fenerbahce (2004)  
  The teenage signing from Everton captured the imagination at Old Trafford with a storybook debut hat-trick  
  For all the adulation modern footballers receive, most will never comprehend the impact they have on young people. Sure, you get 21st-century icons such as Jack Grealish or James Maddison, who cut through all that silly public scrutiny on their hair or fashion choices and manage to connect with young supporters, but the vast majority can never truly know what they mean to fans.  
  I’ve worked in football journalism for almost a decade and met a fair few figures who could be deemed idols. Going to a José Mourinho press conference as a student on work experience was surreal. Making my first visit to the Old Trafford press box felt like a landmark as a boyhood Manchester United fan, as was shaking hands with Ole Gunnar Solskjær after covering a United pre-season friendly in Norway.  
  I’ve never met Wayne Rooney, though, and sometimes I wonder whether it’s better to keep it that way. Never meet your heroes and all that. If I did meet him, however, I’d ask him about 28 September 2004 and Manchester United 6-2 Fenerbahce.  
  Football had cast itself as the nucleus of my existence by that point, my affections fully occupied for life. This article could easily be centred on Solskjær’s stoppage-time strike against Bayern Munich in May 1999, for obvious reasons. But then I was only five, watching on from a distance on a small TV in Devon while on a family holiday.  
  Six years later, I went to Manchester United 6-2 Fenerbahce and I soaked in every second. I’d been to Old Trafford a few times before (and have been hundreds of times since) but this visit stands out like a beacon in my memory.  
  There wasn’t much talk about Rooney making his debut in the buildup. Yes, he’d just completed a mega money move to United from Everton, Sir Alex Ferguson (and all us fans) convinced the club had just landed their next superstar. But he wasn’t supposed to start. In a home group game against European lesser lights, it was expected that Ferguson would rotate and might bring Rooney on for five minutes. Not that I cared, attending with my dad – I just wanted to see United in the flesh once more. I think our previous visit had been a dire 0-0 draw with Newcastle.  
  So we wriggled our way through the hordes on Sir Matt Busby Way and into our seats in the North Stand. My dad always did this thing where he said “Welcome to Old Trafford” in the voice of a stadium announcer just as we walked up the steps to the vomitory and the ground unfurled in front of us. That sight remains just as beautiful to me today, the sweeping red stands with green grass laid out perfectly as a stage. The Theatre of Dreams was never a sardonic or tongue-in-cheek phrase to me. It was just that.  
  We discovered Ferguson had thrown Rooney into the starting lineup, with the 18-year-old boy wonder starting alongside Ryan Giggs and Ruud van Nistelrooy in a dream frontline. Cristiano Ronaldo remained an unused substitute that night. Ridiculous times.  
  It took seven minutes for the floodgates to open, Giggs with the goal that would set United on course for a routine victory. Then, on 17 minutes, the first of three dream moments for Rooney and for me. The debutant fired home a wicked left-foot effort to cap a trademark United move after Van Nistelrooy’s slide-rule pass.  
  Rooney’s second came hot on its heels and was even better: a drop of the shoulder, a feint on to the right foot and a rasping low drive into the corner. At that point, with United 3-0 up inside half an hour, this 11-year-old was sated.  
  Yet it was building to a climax. On 47 minutes Fenerbahce pulled a goal back – “to keep things interesting,” as my dad reassured me – but Rooney wasn’t to be denied. This was his throne and there were 67,000 of us there to witness the coronation.  
  It was 10 minutes into the second half and Rooney couldn’t have placed the ball in a better position for a free-kick. But bear in mind United fans had been spoiled with goals from these spots after years of David Beckham. With that history and the lure of the hat-trick there could have been a sense of pressure weighing heavy on those teenage shoulders.  
  This was a player, however, who defied such logic and so bent the perfect free-kick into the top left corner and wheeled away, having just landed in football utopia. A hat-trick on United debut in front of a packed Old Trafford. Forget Roy of the Rovers. This stuff isn’t meant to happen in reality. I wouldn’t have dared to write it in my junior school English books.  
  And here’s why the third goal is the one that meant the most. I had been standing on my seat as the whole crowd rose in expectation of the moment and jumped up and down incredulously, nearly toppling off. An older bloke in the seat next to me turned around beaming and shook my hand – as if this whole experience was a victory for youth, for hope for the Manchester United of tomorrow. I embraced my dad.  
  After the win (Van Nistelrooy and David Bellion scored after another Fenerbahce consolation) Ferguson’s post-match reaction didn’t quite chime with my own joy.  
  “He is only 18 and a young boy, don’t forget,” said the United manager. “The important thing for me as a coach is to allow the boy to develop naturally without too much public attention. I want him to be as ordinary as he can.”  
  I had – and have – the greatest respect for Ferguson and you can understand the Scot trying to downplay the hype after such a debut – but honestly such a measured response was far from my mind, drifting home after the game. In fact, it wouldn’t have mattered if Rooney had flopped at United after that. It’s just a nice piece of providence that he went on to become the club’s and England’s all-time top scorer (though Harry Kane has overtaken him with the national team).  
  The moment was everything, thousands celebrating together in shared ecstasy. You get that for every goal, of course, but this time the narrative had cast its spell on me and I was mesmerised by its brilliance.  
  Maybe that was the moment my love of football and United crystalised, rather than the 1999 Champions League final. This one was different because it was mine. I was there, I shared in witnessing history and I was old enough to take in the story, which felt significant. That it was an 18-year-old performing such magic was relevant too, Rooney being just seven years older than I was. Before him had been Beckham and Giggs and Roy Keane and they always felt like adults from another generation. Now I could chart Rooney’s career, not as a role model per se, but as a phenomenon for the millennials.  
  Rooney scored more eye-catching goals for United, of course: the thunderous volley against Newcastle, the overhead kick in the Manchester derby, the halfway-line strike at West Ham.  
  But it all started, for him and for me, with a regulation trip to Old Trafford for a Champions League group game on a warm September night. A journey had begun.  
  0 results are available, use up and down arrow keys to navigate  
  Academy History  
  THE UNITED ACADEMY: OUR HISTORY  
  Manchester United’s commitment to developing our own players - a tradition that would gift the likes of Best, Charlton, Edwards, Giggs and Scholes to the beautiful game - can be traced back to the 1930s, when club chairman James Gibson was the driving force.  
  1930s The year 1932 saw the creation of United’s first ‘A’ team – the club’s third level at the time, after the first team and the reserve team (which had long competed in the Central League set up in 1911/12 and becoming essentially a competition for Football League second-string sides) – which would compete in the amateur Manchester League and be largely a vehicle for promoting and developing young players from the local area. United manager Scott Duncan wrote in the Manchester Evening Chronicle at the time: “By running a team in the Manchester League, we shall be able to give all likely juniors a chance of showing their paces, and United hope to discover from their number more than average finds.” Duncan also gave an insight into some of his personal philosophies on youth, describing the practice of young players being “held in reserve to develop their talents, develop their muscles and build up their frame so that in time they could step in [to the first team] and do themselves justice”, while also delivering the Busbyesque soundbite: “To hurry along a youngster is a big mistake, but the junior must be assured that his time will come.” The next major development was the launch of the Manchester United Junior Athletic Club, commonly known as MUJAC. This junior section came into operation in 1938 (by which time Duncan had moved on and Walter Crickmer was now secretary-manager) as a ‘schoolboy football scheme’ that collaborated with local educational authorities to create a Manchester United youth team – and to provide training facilities and coaching – for aspiring young footballers. “They’d considered having a colts team, before that, in the early 1930s,” explains club museum curator Mark Wylie. “James Gibson, the then-chairman, had spoken of a ‘United composed of Manchester players’.” Under Gibson, Crickmer and Louis Rocca – the scout and arch-fixer whose Wartime letter to Busby alerted his interest to United’s managerial position – MUJAC implemented two new youth sides to add to the club’s system, a first XI and a second team, which would provide the gateway for young players who, if they passed muster, could follow a pathway up through the club’s tiers with the ultimate prize being a place in the senior team.  
  Scott Duncan and his United squad in 1936.  
  “History was created in Manchester United football circles today,” wrote football journalist Alf Clarke (later to be a victim of the Munich Air Disaster) in the Manchester Evening Chronicle on 3 September 1938. “This afternoon, there are no fewer than five United teams on duty. They are the senior side, Central League XI, ‘A’ team, MUJAC first team and MUJAC second XI... no club in the country is better served with junior players than Manchester United.”  
  Johnny Carey, Stan Pearson, John Aston and Charlie Mitten were among the players discovered by Rocca, a quartet that would go on to be cornerstones of Sir Matt Busby’s first great United team. In 1938/39, playing in the Chorlton Amateur League, United’s youth team – featuring Pearson, Mitten and Aston – fizzed in an eye-popping 223 goals. After a decade of yo-yoing fortunes in the league brought promotion back to the top flight in 1937/38, Gibson’s promise was taking shape. 1940s and 1950s  
  War put everything on hold, but the cessation of hostilities spiked the need for players, particularly younger ones. So many had been lost to the game through death, injury or age. Encouragement was required to finesse the skills of the new generation. A post-War FA County Youth Cup had been a start, but things really took off when FA secretary Stanley Rous green lit a knockout competition for 15 to 18-year-olds, and, in 1952, the FA Youth Cup was born.  
  Former United skipper Johnny Carey.  
  For United, this was a call to arms. Now with a network of 11 dedicated scouts across England and Ireland, overseen by Busby’s old team-mate Joe Armstrong, to whom he referred as the ‘gentlemen ferret’ in honour of his uncanny ability to unearth talent, this proved a seismic moment in United’s history. “The systemic way United had gone about things, with the desire to get the lads trained up, put them ahead of the game – giving them a trade or something they could fall back on if they didn’t make it; that was quite forward-thinking,” says Mark Wylie. “That dedication behind the scenes to getting the best out of these kids still goes on today – making not just great footballers, but well-rounded human beings.” Between 1953 and 1957 and under the guidance of Jimmy Murphy, United certainly schooled the competition when it came to the Youth Cup, showcasing the finest youngsters England had to offer, kids having the time of their lives against a fast-changing cultural backdrop. That initial 1953 success – Wolves hammered 7-1 in the first leg in front of close on 21,000 at Old Trafford – featured Duncan Edwards, Eddie Colman, Billy Whelan, David Pegg and Albert Scanlon; the latter the sole post-Munich survivor. Coming through next were Bobby Charlton and Wilf McGuinness – both played in 1954’s Youth-Cup win and Shay Brennan, who appeared the following season. 1960s  
  The next Youth Cup victory arrived in 1964, lit up by the breakthrough of the mould-breaking George Best, who appeared in that year’s final win over Swindon Town. Best, alongside David Sadler and John Aston Jr – following in his father’s footsteps – would graduate to European Cup victory in 1968. Others off the production line aiding and abetting 1965 and 1967’s First Division title triumphs included Bobby Noble, John Fitzpatrick and Jimmy Rimmer.  
  Arthur Albiston was a stalwart at full-back for United.  
  1970s, 1980s and 1990s Though the 1970s and 1980s were not barren decades – Arthur Albiston, Norman Whiteside, Mark Hughes, Clayton Blackmore among the notable names – it was the arrival of Alex Ferguson that restored the picture painted by Busby. “I have always considered the player you produce better than the one you buy,” he averred, seeing the future in 1992’s Six Years at United. He acutely understood Busby’s modus operandi, the connections, or the ‘lifeblood’ as he put it.  
  Under the watchful gaze of Collyhurst-born Brian Kidd, European Cup winner of ‘68 and that legend of youth development, Eric Harrison, the fabled class of ‘92, boosted by the expanded focus Ferguson’s era had brought, yielded a first Youth Cup since 1964. And what riches. Beckham, Giggs, Scholes, the Nevilles, Butt – a glorious reboot of that 1950s dream, and the eventual realisation of Busby’s European Cup quest, capped by glorious Treble season. And while 1998 brought the start of the greatest campaign in the club’s history, it also saw the relaunch and rebranding of our youth development set-up, now known as the Manchester United Academy.  
  The production line of great young players continued, with homegrown talents a core part of all 13 of United’s Premier League titles from 1993 through to 2013. As well as the legendary Class of ’92, players like Wes Brown, John O’Shea and Darren Fletcher came through the ranks to become champions.  
  Eric Harrison with some of his exciting youth-team products.  
  2000s, 2010s and 2020s The Reds have won the FA Youth Cup three times since 2000 - in 2003, 2011 and 2022 - extending the club's record tally to 11.  
  A player from our youth development levels has been included in each and every one of our first-team matchday squads since October 1937, a remarkable sequence unmatched in football and one which we are rightly proud of.  
  As well on-pitch support, players in our Academy receive a rounded education, providing them with the necessary skills to succeed in football or in careers away from the sport. Countless graduates are now experiencing successful broadcast careers, such as Wes Brown, Gary Neville and Paul Scholes.  
  Others, such as Mark Dempsey and Paul McShane, form part of our Academy coaching staff, who continue to nurture young players with the aim of guiding them to fulfil their potential.  
  As we look to the future, our dedication to individual player development remains unwavering, as the most exciting prospects from in the UK and around the world dream of playing for Manchester United Football Club.  
  Our Under-18s won the FA Youth Cup in 2022, the 11th time United have lifted the trophy.  
  STAY INFORMED  
  Register for our email alerts and receive latest news and events  
  Email address:  
  History  
  Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath L&YR Football Club, our club has operated for over 140 years. The team first entered the English First Division, then the highest league in English football, for the start of the 1892-93 season. Our club name changed to Manchester United Football Club in 1902, and we won the first of our 20 English League titles in 1908. In 1910, we moved to Old Trafford, our current stadium.  
  Late 1940s  
  In the late 1940s, we returned to on-field success, winning the FA Cup in 1948 and finishing within the top four league positions during each of the first five seasons immediately following the Second World War. During the 1950s, we continued our on-field success under the leadership of manager Sir Matt Busby, who built a popular and famous team based on youth players known as the "Busby Babes."  
  1958  
  In February 1958, an airplane crash resulted in the death of eight of our first team players. Global support and tributes followed this disaster as Busby galvanized the team around such popular players as George Best, Bobby Charlton and Denis Law. Rebuilding of the club culminated with a victory in the 1968 European Cup final, becoming the first English club to win this title.  
  1986  
  In 1986, our club appointed Sir Alex Ferguson as manager. In 1990, we won the FA Cup and began a period of success that has continued until the present day. Since 1992, we have won the Premier League 13 times. In total, we have won a record 20 English League titles, a record 12 FA Cups, 4 League Cups, 3 European Champions Cups and 1 FIFA Club World Cup, making us one of the most successful clubs in England.  
  2012/13  
  At the end of the 2012/13 season, Sir Alex Ferguson retired as team manager. Sir Alex remains a key member of the club as he is a director of Manchester United FC. David Moyes was our manager during the 2013/14 season and departed the club in April 2014. Following this departure, Ryan Giggs assumed responsibility for the first team as interim manager.  
  2014  
  On 19 May 2014, we announced Louis van Gaal as the new team manager of Manchester United under a three-year contract. Louis van Gaal has managed at the top level of European football for over 20 years, and, in that time, he has won domestic titles and domestic cups in three countries, as well as the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Cup, an Intercontinental Cup, two UEFA Super Cups and domestic Super Cups in Holland and Germany. Louis van Gaal took his new post in July 2014 after the FIFA World Cup, where he managed the Dutch national team into third place position.  
  2016  
  On 27 May 2016, we announced Jose Mourinho as the new team manager of Manchester United on a three-year contract. Mourinho has managed at the top level of European football since 2000 and, in that time, he has won 25 trophies in four countries including two Champions League titles, three Premier League titles, two Serie A titles, one Europa League title, one La Liga title and two Portuguese league titles. Between 2003 and 2012, he did not go a single calendar year without winning at least one trophy and in his first season at Manchester United, won three trophies. Individual accolades include 3 Premier League Manager of the Year awards, FIFA World Coach of the Year, 2 Serie A Manager of the Year awards and two UEFA Manager of the Year awards.  
  OLD TRAFFORD THEATRE OF DREAMS  
  Our Old Trafford stadium, commonly known as "The Theatre of Dreams," was originally opened on February 19, 1910 with a capacity of approximately 80,000. During the Second World War, Old Trafford was used by the military as a depot, and on March 11, 1941 was heavily damaged by a German bombing raid. The stadium was rebuilt following the war and reopened on August 24, 1949. The addition of floodlighting, permitting evening matches, was completed in 1957 and a project to cover the stands with roofs was completed in 1959. After a series of additions during the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s, capacity at Old Trafford reached 56,385 in 1985. The conversion of the stadium to an all-seater reduced capacity to approximately 44,000 by 1992, the lowest in its history. Thereafter, we began to expand capacity throughout the stadium, bringing capacity to approximately 58,000 by 1996, approximately 68,000 by 2000, and approximately 76,000 in 2006. Current capacity at Old Trafford is 75,454.  
  1910  
  Since the inception of the Premier League in 1992, our club has enjoyed consistent success and growth with popular players such as Eric Cantona, David Beckham, Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Roy Keane, Bryan Robson, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney and Robin van Persie. The popularity of these players, our distinguished tradition and history, and the on-field success of our first team have allowed us to expand the club into a global brand with an international follower base.  
  0 results are available, use up and down arrow keys to navigate  
  History by Decade  
  Manchester United: The story so far  
  Immerse yourself in the greatest football story ever told with our decade-by-decade guide to United's rich history...  
  1878 to 1909  
  Manchester United Football Club was first formed in 1878, albeit under a different name - Newton Heath LYR (Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway).  
  Little suspecting the impact they were about to have on the national, even global game, the workers in the railway yard at Newton Heath indulged their passion for association football with games against other departments of the LYR and other railway companies.  
  Indeed, when the Football League was formed in 1888, Newton Heath did not consider themselves good enough to become founder members alongside the likes of Blackburn Rovers and Preston North End. Instead, they waited until 1892 to make their entrance, joining the league at Division One level but were sadly relegated to Division Two after just two seasons in the top flight.  
  Financial problems plagued the club and, by the start of the 20th Century, it seemed they were destined for extinction. The team was saved, however, by local brewery owner John Henry Davies. Legend has it that he learned of the club's plight when he found a dog belonging to captain Harry Stafford.  
  Davies decided to invest in Newton Heath, in return for some interest in running it. This led to a change of name and, after several alternatives including Manchester Central and Manchester Celtic were rejected, Manchester United was born in April/May of 1902.  
  The next influential figure to arrive at United was Ernest Mangnall, who was appointed secretary in September 1903 but is widely acknowledged as being the club's first manager. His side, including new signings like goalkeeper Harry Moger and forward Charlie Sagar, finished third in the Second Division in 1903/04 and again in 1904/05.  
  The following season, 1905/06, was to prove one of the greatest in the early life of Manchester United. The half-back line of Dick Duckworth, Alex Bell and captain Charlie Roberts were instrumental in the side which reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup but, more importantly, finished as runners-up in the Second Division. Some 12 years after being relegated, United reclaimed their place in the top flight. To celebrate, Mangnall signed Billy Meredith from rivals Manchester City. Nicknamed the Welsh Wizard, Meredith had been implicated in a bribery scandal at City, and was due to be auctioned along with 17 other players. Mangnall shrewdly made his move early, and acquired Meredith's signature before the bidding began.  
  The winger's arrival proved to be inspirational - Meredith set up countless goals for Sandy Turnbull in 1907/08 when United won the Football League title for the first time. As champions, United played in the first-ever Charity Shield in 1908. They duly won the trophy, beating Southern League champions QPR 4-0 thanks largely to a hat-trick from Sandy's namesake, Jimmy Turnbull. The third trophy to be added to the club's honours board was the FA Cup, at the end of a tremendous run in 1909. United beat Bristol City 1-0 in the final, thanks to Sandy Turnbull's winner.  
  1910 to 1919  
  The words Old Trafford entered footballing folklore for the first time during the 1909/10 season. The land on which the stadium was built was bought by the Manchester Brewery Company (through John Henry Davies) and leased to the club.  
  Davies himself paid for the building work, which commenced in 1908 under the supervision of architect Archibald Leitch. By 1910, the club had moved lock, stock and barrel from their old home of Bank Street. United's opening fixture at Old Trafford was played on 19 February 1910. The new hosts lost 4-3 to their first visitors Liverpool, but the stadium was successful in accommodating an 80,000 capacity crowd. Two days previously, the old wooden stand at Bank Street had been blown down by strong winds - further evidence, perhaps, that United were suited to and needed their new home.  
  Indeed, United were crowned League champions for the second time at the end of their first full season at Old Trafford - 1910/1911. The Reds clinched the title at home on the final day of the season, beating Sunderland 5-1 with Harold Halse grabbing two of the goals. Halse also scored six goals as United beat Swindon Town 8-4 to clinch the Charity Shield.  
  Despite such feats, United could not maintain the winning run and, in 1911/12, the defending champions finished in a disappointing 13th place. Secretary-manager Ernest Mangnall bore the brunt of the criticism, and resigned to join United's neighbours and rivals Manchester City. The search for Mangnall's successor finished at the door of JJ Bentley, the president of the Football League. Under his guidance, the Reds claimed fourth place in the League at the end of the 1912/13 season.  
  The 1913/14 term was a period of transition, while the following campaign was notable for a change of management - in December 1914, the roles of secretary and team manager were separated for the first time. Bentley became full-time secretary and John Robson was appointed to look after and select the team. Robson's team was a shadow of the one which had performed so well in the previous decade, as only George Stacey, Billy Meredith, Sandy Turnbull and George Wall remained from the 1909 FA Cup-winning side. Not surprisingly, the club struggled, only escaping relegation by a single point.  
  Before United could form a plan for recovery, the outbreak of the First World War put football firmly to the back of people's minds. The Football League was suspended, and clubs resorted to playing in regional competitions. United played in the Lancashire Prinicipal and Subsidiary Tournaments for four seasons, but this was a less than successful diversion, the misery compounded by the fact that two of the club's players were found guilty of match fixing. Enoch West was banned for life, as was Sandy Turnbull, who joined the Footballers' Battalion to help Britain's war effort. Tragically, Turnbull was killed during battle in France in May 1917, and another link to the club’s earliest glory years lost  
  1920 to 1929  
  Manchester United returned to League football on 30 August 1919, following a four-year gap caused by the First World War. The team for that first match back against Derby County included many new faces - in fact only two of the men on duty had played in United's previous league game at the end of the 1914/15 season.  
  Billy Meredith was still at Old Trafford, but reaching the end of his illustrious Old Trafford career. He made only 19 appearances in 1919/20 when United finished 12th in the First Division. The new hero of the terraces, Joe Spence, finished the season as the team's top scorer with 14 League goals. He was joint-top scorer again in 1920/21, but this time with half the tally as United again under-achieved to finish in 13th place.  
  Manager John Robson then left the club, to be replaced by John Chapman, who reverted to the dual role of secretary/manager last held by JJ Bentley. Meanwhile, former manager Ernest Mangnall continued to make the local headlines with City, as they moved into a new stadium at Maine Road.  
  Mangnall also re-signed Meredith for City and despite his advancing years, it was perhaps no coincidence that United were relegated in their first season without him, winning only eight of their 42 matches in 1921/22. Chapman's team managed to climb out of the Second Division at the third attempt, when the on-field leadership of Frank Barson helped ensure promotion at the end of 1924/25. United finished second to Leicester City, after losing only eight games.  
  United's top-flight status was cemented with a ninth-place finish in 1925/26. Chapman's team also went on a great run in the FA Cup, but this came to a halt in the semi-finals when Manchester City beat them 3-0 at Bramall Lane in Sheffield. City's luck then ran out, as they lost both the final (to Bolton) and their place in the First Division.  
  Not that United supporters could afford to chuckle at City's misfortune. Two months into the 1926/27 season, they had troubles of their own when the FA suspended manager Chapman with immediate effect, the reasons for which never became public. Wing-half Clarence Hilditch took over as player-manager while the club looked for a more permanent replacement, but 'Lal' was reluctant to pick himself, and the team suffered. Chapman's permanent successor, Herbert Bamlett, arrived later that season. He was already known to United fans as the referee who called off the club's FA Cup quarter-final tie at Burnley in 1909, when their team was trailing 1-0 in the midst of a blizzard. Bamlett, though, was too cold to blow the final whistle, so Charlie Roberts had to do the job and United went on to win the Cup that season!  
  Sadly, Bamlett had no further impact on United's success as their manager. The team slowly slipped down the First Division, finishing 15th in 1926/27 and 18th in 1927/28, only to recover slightly to end in 12th in 1928/29. Spence continued to score goals by the bucketload but not even he could stop United's steady decline...  
  1930 to 1939  
  The decline that had started in the 1920s continued at the outset of the 1930s as United finished 17th in 1929/30, to fill the fans with dread.  
  Their fears were realised in the next season, when United made the worst start in their history by losing their first 12 league matches in a row. The dozen defeats included back-to-back thrashings at Old Trafford, 6-0 by Huddersfield Town and then 7-4 by Newcastle United. The Reds eventually lost 27 out of 42 league matches in 1930/31, conceding 115 goals. Relegation led to manager Herbert Bamlett bowing out, and secretary Walter Crickmer taking charge of team affairs. The patience of the supporters was being severely tested, and many of them did not hang around - only 3,507 turned up for the opening match of the following season. As the season went on, the situation deteriorated. By December, there was no money to pay the players' wages. Bankruptcy was a real threat.  
  The club's saviour came in the shape of James Gibson, a manufacturer of army uniforms. He invested £30,000, paid the players and got things back on track. He appointed a new manager, Scott Duncan, who was given money to spend. However, he did not make the most of it. A dreadful run under Duncan in 1933/34 took United to the brink of being relegated into the Third Division for the first time in the club’s history. Survival was only secured on the last day of the season, when a 2-0 win, with goals from Tom Manley and Jack Cape, sent opponents Millwall down instead. In that same week, Manchester City won the FA Cup, with a man named Matt Busby in their side.  
  United finished the 1934/35 season in fifth place and, then in the following term, claimed their first silverware of the decade. Unbeaten during the last 19 games of the campaign, the Reds secured the Second Division championship with a 3-2 win over Bury at Gigg Lane. The end-of-season form in the Second Division suggested United would do well on returning to the top flight but, by Christmas, the side had only won four matches, including one on 25 December itself! Only 10 wins in the whole season led to relegation, with City's fortunes again proving in stark contrast as they were crowned League champions. The relegated United team included Walter Winterbottom, who would later be knighted after managing England for 16 years.  
  The yo-yoing continued as United were promoted again the next season, 1937/38, as runners-up to Aston Villa. Manager Duncan could only claim some of the credit, as he left the club in November 1937 to take charge of Ipswich Town. Walter Crickmer again stepped into the breach as United's caretaker manager. The highlight of Duncan and Crickmer's season was the discovery of Johnny Carey, who would later be recognised as one of the greatest full-backs in football history. Playing 32 games and scoring six goals in a more advanced role, the Irishman helped United to stay up this time, finishing 14th, while City took their turn to be relegated. There was no time to gloat, however - the outbreak of war put the Football League on hold again, for several years.  
  1940 to 1949  
  The outbreak of the Second World War forced football to the very back of people's minds between 1939 and 1946. But even in the absence of League football, Old Trafford was still the focus of attention.  
  On 11 March 1941, the stadium was bombed during a German air raid. The attack destroyed the main stand, dressing rooms and offices. It was a devastating blow but, within a few years, there would be optimism again around the famous old ground.  
  It came with a man named Matt Busby, who would prove to be a hugely important figure in the history of Manchester United. A former Manchester City and Liverpool player, Busby served in the Ninth Battalion of the King's Liverpool Regiment, where his leadership qualities shone through. These qualities did not go unnoticed by United.  
  Busby joined the Reds in 1945, initially on a five-year contract. Little did he know he would still be managing the club 25 years later! The young boss did not waste any time making his mark, altering the positions of several key players. He also founded the 'Famous Five' forwards when he brought together Jimmy Delaney, Stan Pearson, Jack Rowley, Charlie Mitten and Johnny Morris.  
  Perhaps the most important signing Busby made, however, was on the coaching staff. Matt had metJimmy Murphy during the war, and identified him as his perfect right-hand man. The pair formed a partnership that would see United become a power in world football.  
  Busby and Murphy's first step on the road to glory was to build a team that was capable of challenging for domestic honours. They succeeded almost at the first attempt, as United finished second to Liverpool in the first Football League campaign after the war, 1946/47. It was the club's highest placing for 36 years, and there was extra cause for optimism when the Reserves won their (Central) League Championship in the same season.  
  Busby's mix of young local lads and established players lifted their first trophy the following year, when beating the Blackpool side of Stanley Matthews, Stan Mortensen and Harry Johnston in the 1948 FA Cup final. It was 39 years to the day that United had previously won the Cup, in 1909.  
  The FA Cup was also the club's first major honour since winning the League Championship in 1911, and recapturing the title would now become the number one target for Busby's men. During the first five seasons of his post-war reign, United finished second on four occasions, and fourth on the other (1949/50).  
  The thrill of the chase for honours brought the fans flooding back – more than one million of them passed through the turnstiles in the 1947/48 season, dragging the club out of debt. Surely these fans wouldn't have to wait long to be rewarded with the prize they all craved…  
  1950 to 1959  
  The 1950s dawned with the break-up of Matt Busby’s first successful United side - the 1948 FA Cup-winning team.  
  Dressing room dissent led to Johnny Morris departing for Derby and Charlie Mitten exporting his wing wizardry to Colombia. Fans worried by the duo's departure were soon placated. The great Scot’s plan was to promote the youngsters he’d been recruiting and developing in the late 1940s. Jackie Blanchflower and Roger Byrne were the first to emerge and be labelled ‘Babes’ by the newspapers; in their debut season in 1951/52, United won the elusive League championship for the first time since 1911.  
  In 1955/56 and 1956/57, Byrne lifted the Division One trophy as skipper of a fabled young side that included several more products of Busby’s youth academy. Eddie Colman, Mark Jones and David Pegg were all first-team regulars, having cut their teeth in the FA Youth Cup, which United won five years in a row from its inception in 1953.  
  Not all the young talent was home-grown, however. The United manager was equally happy to plunge into the transfer market, as shown by the big money signings of proven internationals Tommy Taylor and goalkeeper Harry Gregg.  
  Another young man who excelled for club and country was Duncan Edwards. So powerful, talented and mature was the Dudley teenager that Busby could not hold him back from United’s first team. In April 1953, he became the First Division’s youngest-ever player at the age of 16 years and 185 days.  
  One match that epitomised the new Busby Babes era was against Arsenal at Highbury on 1 February 1958. In front of a crowd of 63,578 the Reds beat the Gunners in a nine-goal thriller with goals from Edwards, Taylor (2), Bobby Charlton and Dennis Viollet.  
  Sadly, what was perhaps their greatest game on English soil was destined to be the last for that particular Manchester United team. From Highbury, the Babes headed off into Europe to play the second leg of a tie against Red Star Belgrade. Again they won 5-4, this time on aggregate but, on the way home, the celebrations were cut short by tragedy.  
  After refuelling in Munich on 6 February 1958, the United aeroplane crashed, killing 22 people, including seven players – Byrne, Colman, Jones, Pegg, Taylor, Geoff Bent and Liam Whelan. Duncan Edwards died of his injuries 15 days later in a German hospital. The club, the city of Manchester and the English game entered a long period of mourning. It seemed inconceivable that United could recover from such an appalling loss.  
  But as Busby defied the medics to recover from his crash wounds, the team bounced back and, patched up by Jimmy Murphy, they reached the FA Cup final in May against all odds. The Reds lost at Wembley to Bolton Wanderers, 12 months after controversially losing the final to Aston Villa.  
  Despite the appalling devastation inflicted on United’s richly talented first-team squad, Busby and Murphy pulled together a makeshift pool of players and, remarkably, they finished second in the league in 1958/59. After the horrors of Munich, the rebuilding process had begun.  
  1960 to 1969  
  After building one of the greatest teams seen in England, Matt Busby had to start all over again at the start of the 1960s. The Munich Air Disaster had robbed him, and football, of some of the era's greatest players. But once the great manager had recovered from his own injuries, he set about forging another side to take the world by storm.  
  Dennis Viollet was one of the leading names within this team. In 1959/60, the Munich survivor broke Jack Rowley's club record by scoring 32 goals league goals in one season, a record that still stands to this day.  
  By 1962 Viollet had left the club as Busby reshaped his side once more. This next great team still retained a link to the Busby Babes in the shape of Bill Foulkes and Bobby Charlton, the latter coming through the ranks to break goalscoring records for both club and country. Nobby Stiles also rose through the ranks, while Denis Law came via a record £115,000 transfer from Torino.  
  United's form was erratic at the start of the decade, while new names settled in, but then everything came together with a run to Wembley for the 1963 FA Cup Final. Busby's new-look team beat Leicester 3-1, with two goals from David Herd and one by Law.  
  The next season saw United build on the foundations of FA Cup success to challenge for the title – finishing second, only four points behind the champions Liverpool. The 1962/63 season was also notable for the signing and debut of George Best, the young man from Belfast who would become football's first superstar. His incredible skill, pace and control left opponents in knots, making him a hit with the fans, while his film-star looks helped elevate his fame to celebrity status.  
  In 1964/65, the famous Trinity of Best, Law and Charlton took United to new heights. They won the League championship, pipping Leeds on goal difference, and reached the semi-finals of the European Fairs Cup and the FA Cup. Law plundered goals galore and was named the European Footballer of the Year.  
  The title-winning team seemed to be the finished article, but they finished a disappointing fourth the following season, and exited both the FA and European Cups in the semi-finals. The season's highlight had been the 5-1 away thrashing of Benfica in the European Cup quarter-finals, when Best had been in blistering form and earned the tag the 'El Beatle'.  
  In 1966/67, United were crowned League champions again and another season of European Cup football was guaranteed. This time, United would go all the way, beating Benfica in the final at Wembley. Jaime Graca equalised Charlton's headed goal to take the game into extra-time, but further goals from Best, Brian Kidd – on his 19th birthday – and Charlton gave United their first European Cup. Just 10 years after Sir Matt had seen his dream team destroyed, he had delivered the ultimate prize. He was knighted soon afterwards.  
  The following season saw the European champions finish 11th in the league and fail to win a trophy. The Reds also lost the World Club Championship 2-1 on aggregate to Estudiantes in a match marred by on-field violence. Despite the anti-climatic end to the decade, United had achieved incredible things in the 1960s and few could begrudge Sir Matt's retirement in 1969, after all he'd achieved.  
  1970 to 1979  
  With memories of the European Cup triumph beginning to fade, Manchester United's attentions turned to their managerial vacancy. Sir Matt Busby had led the club to the promised land but had now retired, leaving big boots to fill.  
  Their decision was to appoint from within, by promoting one of Busby's coaches and former players, Wilf McGuinness, to the senior position. A combination of ageing stars and the lack of overall control in team affairs meant that McGuinness struggled to impose his authority. Putting popular figures like Denis Law and Shay Brennan on the transfer list didn't help matters, neither did George Best's distracting off-field behaviour.  
  Wilf wasn't allowed to struggle for too long. On Boxing Day 1970, he was relieved of his duties and Sir Matt was put back in temporary charge. Frank O'Farrell was the next man to take over in June 1971 but, despite a promising start, United's 5-0 defeat by Crystal Palace on 16 December 1972 was the Irishman's last match in charge.  
  Although O'Farrell's tenure was short, he still left his mark by signing Martin Buchan for a record fee of £125,000. The former Aberdeen captain was to become a key player for O'Farrell's successor, Tommy Docherty, who was appointed around Christmas in 1972.  
  The Doc's first challenge was to keep the team in the top flight, while gradually replacing the legends of the 1960s. Bobby Charlton had announced he would retire at the end of the 1972/73 season, Best was frequently veering off the rails once again and Law had passed his peak. Law, in fact, was given a free transfer in July 1973, a move which later came back to haunt Docherty. The striker joined Manchester City and scored at Old Trafford in April 1974, on a day when United's relegation to the Second Division was confirmed.  
  To Docherty's credit, the Reds bounced back very quickly. They won the Second Division championship in style in 1974/75, with top scorer Stuart 'Pancho' Pearson contributing 17 league goals. Lou Macari scored the goal that clinched promotion, at Southampton on 5 April 1975.  
  United then reached successive FA Cup finals, losing to Southampton in 1976, but beating Liverpool 2-1 a year later. The Doc's men rose perfectly to the task of destroying Liverpool's Treble hopes – the Merseyside club won the League Championship and the European Cup on either side of United's triumph. The joy of that win didn't last very long for the Doc, however. Just 44 days later, he was sacked following off-field revelations.  
  QPR manager Dave Sexton stepped into the breach, and although he finished no higher than 10th in the table in his first two seasons 1977/78 and 1978/79, he again guided the side to Wembley in 1979. Unfortunately the Reds lost there, 3-2 to Arsenal in one of the most memorable finishes to an FA Cup final. Gordon McQueen and Sammy McIlroy scored in the last five minutes to bring United back from 2-0 down, only for Alan Sunderland to grab Arsenal's winner on the brink of extra-time.  
  Those frenetic last few moments at Wembley summed up the 1970s for United, a decade of high drama when great highs and lows were never far apart.  
  1980 to 1989  
  United made a poor start to the 1980s but Dave Sexton and his team recovered to win eight of their last ten league games in the 1979/80 campaign, finishing just two points behind Liverpool in the title race.  
  The Reds produced another blistering finish at the end of the following season, 1980/81, when they won their last seven league games in a row. This time, however, only an eighth-placed finish in the table was secured – a position which the club's board could not tolerate. Sexton was sacked on 30 April 1981, after four seasons in the hot-seat.  
  Sexton’s replacement Ron Atkinson brought in Mick Brown as assistant manager and Eric Harrison as youth coach. But it was his on-field acquisitions that really excited the fans. He broke the British transfer record to recruit Bryan Robson from his old club West Bromwich Albion for £1.5million and spent around a third of that to add another ex-Albion man, Remi Moses, to the United squad.  
  In midfield, the new arrivals wonderfully complemented the finesse of Ray Wilkins, the ball-playing England star. But still there was something missing. United needed a forward who could match the strike-rate of Ian Rush at Liverpool, with the Merseysiders winning the title again in 1982, 1983 and 1984. Atkinson’s men were never far behind, finishing third or fourth in every season of his reign. That elusive league title remained agonisingly out of reach, however.  
  The domestic cups offered United their best chances of silverware, and in 1983, Wembley was reached in both competitions. Liverpool triumphed 2-1 after extra-time to win the League Cup, while little-fancied Brighton and Hove Albion were beaten in two attempts in the FA Cup final. A 2-2 draw was followed up by a thumping 4-0 replay win for United through goals from Robson (2), Arnold Muhren and Norman Whiteside.  
  Whiteside’s habit of rising to the big occasion was never more gratefully received than in 1985, when he curled in the only goal of the FA Cup final to beat Everton 1-0. United had earlier been reduced to 10 men by the dismissal of Kevin Moran, who formed a great defensive partnership with Paul McGrath.  
  It was Atkinson’s second FA Cup success in three seasons but, 18 months later, he was sacked for his inability to break Merseyside’s monopoly of the League title. Not even 10 straight wins at the start of 1985/86 term could lead him to the Holy Grail.  
  In November 1986, United at last appointed a proven winner. At Aberdeen, Alex Ferguson had claimed every prize that Scotland had to offer, not to mention the added bonus of the European Cup Winners' Cup when his team defied the odds to beat Real Madrid in the final.  
  Ferguson clearly had the talent for the job, but he also needed time to turn United round. The club remained patient as the Reds finished eleventh in 1986/87 and again in 1988/89. After all, the season in between, 1987/88, had offered encouraging signs as United finished second to Liverpool by winning eight and drawing two of their last 10 games.  
  The promise of that season, and some of the signings made, would soon be fulfilled.  
  1990 to 1999  
  The dawn of the 1990s saw Alex Ferguson collect his first silverware as Manchester United manager, and Liverpool winning their last League title with an ageing team. The tide was turning…  
  Ferguson's first FA Cup, achieved after a replay against Crystal Palace, at the time seemed to be a stand-alone success, one that possibly saved his job after another poor season in the League. But nine years later, it seemed that Lee Martin's winning goal against Palace lit the fuse for an explosion of unprecedented success.  
  First and foremost, winning the FA Cup in 1990 allowed United to make a return to European competition after an absence of five years following the Heysel disaster. Far from being rusty, the Reds went all the way to the final of the European Cup Winners' Cup in Rotterdam where the opponents were Barcelona, the former club of United striker Mark Hughes. Two goals by Hughes sealed the match 2-1 in United's favour in May 1991, 23 years after the club's previous triumph in Europe.  
  The other long wait, for that elusive League championship, very nearly ended in 1992. The Reds had already won the manager's third trophy in March, the League Cup, and were in a two-horse race with Leeds. Liverpool were out of the running, but still had a say in the destiny of the title, beating United 2-0 at Anfield to end their arch rival's challenge.  
  The 1991/92 title would be remembered in Manchester as the title that United lost, rather than the one that Leeds actually won. Leeds, after all, were not the greatest of football powers in the 1990s and their star quality was further reduced when they allowed one of their best players to cross the Pennines in December 1992.  
  In selling Eric Cantona to Old Trafford, the Yorkshire club practically handed over the keys to the League championship. The Frenchman brought the little extra bit of magic and confidence that had been missing from United's previous campaigns and was an instant hit with the Mancunian faithful, scoring nine goals to help the Reds win their first title in 26 years.  
  In the following season, 1993/94, the team virtually picked itself en route to an historic League and FA Cup Double, with Cantona sporting the number seven shirt that had been Bryan Robson’s property for so long. The number one, meanwhile, was undoubtedly Peter Schmeichel, arguably the best goalkeeper ever seen in the English game.  
  Cantona’s eight-month absence from January 1995, following his clash with a fan at Crystal Palace, proved to be United’s undoing as they tried to defend their Double. The Reds surrendered the title by one point to Blackburn Rovers and then lost the FA Cup final by one goal to Everton. The former champions were hampered at Wembley by an injury to Steve Bruce, the brave captain who was a defensive rock in the early 1990s, and his replacement at half-time, Ryan Giggs, was also not fully fit.  
  Bruce also missed the following year's FA Cup Final, at the end of the 1995/96 season, but this time the result was rather different. Liverpool stood between United and a first-ever ‘Double Double’ and were holding out for extra-time, when Cantona struck home a sublime shot in the 86th minute. The French skipper had throughout the season been an inspiration to the talented young players in the team, including David Beckham and Gary Neville.  
  In May 1997, Cantona helped the club to its fourth League title of the decade. It was to be his last, as he surprisingly retired from football later that same month. The shock waves of Eric’s decision seemed to last for a whole year, as the Reds went empty-handed in 1997/98 while Arsenal won the Double. Again, injuries to key players, especially Giggs and Roy Keane, were cited for United’s downfall.  
  The influence that Giggs could have on results was never more apparent than in the 1999 FA Cup semi-final replay, when he scored perhaps the goal of the decade – a solo run and finish that left Arsenal's defenders grasping at thin air. It booked United's place in their fifth FA Cup final of the 1990s, and this time Ferguson's men won it, beating Newcastle United 2-0 with goals by Paul Scholes and substitute Teddy Sheringham.  
  That result clinched United's third Double, six days after the Premiership title had been wrapped up by Andy Cole's goal against Tottenham at Old Trafford. But still there was more to come from a remarkable campaign. After an epic Champions League semi-final against Juventus, when Keane inspired the team to fight back from 2-0 down in the second leg, United marched into an epic final against Bayern Munich in Barcelona.  
  United's attempts to win the European Cup for the first time since 1968 looked to be doomed when Bayern took an early lead through Mario Basler and defended it with typical German resilience. But then, in injury time, the Reds produced one of the most stunning revivals in sporting history – Sheringham equalised and, moments later, his fellow substitute Ole Gunnar Solskjaer fired in the winner to make the score 2-1. United clinched an unprecedented, historic Treble and Ferguson was subsequently knighted as fans around the globe basked in the glory.  
  The Treble became a Quadruple later in the year when Sir Alex's men travelled to Tokyo to compete for the Inter-Continental Cup. Keane's goal against Palmeiras of Brazil bestowed upon United the title of World Club Champions. Officially, at the end of the Millennium, the biggest football club in the world had also become the best in the world!  
  2000 to 2009  
  United started the new decade, century and millennium in typical pioneering fashion, entering a brand new competition – the FIFA Club World Championship in Brazil – but at the expense of participation in the FA Cup, of which the Reds were the holders.  
  The January jaunt to South America didn't result in any silverware but it gave the players valuable relaxation time in the sun. Rejuvenated by this, United raced ahead of the rivals in the title race on return to England, after they had failed to capitalise at the start of the year. Sir Alex's men achieved their sixth Premiership title early, in April, and still without a convincing replacement for Peter Schmeichel.  
  A host of goalkeepers, including Mark Bosnich, tried and failed to establish themselves during the 1999/2000 season. So it was hardly surprising when World Cup and European Championship winner Fabien Barthez joined United in July 2000.  
  The eccentric but formidable French goalkeeper helped United to win a third successive title in 2000/01, a feat that had previously been achieved by only a handful of clubs in England. Liverpool had been the last team to do it, in 1982, 1983 and 1984, but this was under the supervision of two different managers - Bob Paisley and Joe Fagan.  
  Sir Alex had been at the helm for all three of United's back-to-back titles, and was the first manager in English football to achieve the hat-trick. On the back of this latest trophy, he announced his impending retirement, only to thankfully change his mind and decide to stay.  
  Ferguson's major signing in the summer of 2002 was Rio Ferdinand, one of England's best performers at the World Cup finals in Japan and Korea. The £30m acquisition from Leeds added the steel that had arguably been missing from United's defence since the departure of Jaap Stam to Lazio.  
  Ferdinand helped the Reds to recapture the Premiership title in May 2003, a season that marked the departure of one of United’s favourite sons. David Beckham left his longtime home by signing for Real Madrid but his career as a Red ended on a high, scoring a trademark free-kick against Everton in his final game.  
  Arsenal reclaimed the League title in 2004 but the Reds won the FA Cup for an 11th time, beating Millwall 3-0 in the 2004 final at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium. A year later, United were back in Wales to face Arsenal for the trophy. Chelsea had taken the Premiership and League Cup, and it was the Gunners who triumphed on penalties despite a dominant display from United - for whom Wayne Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo were outstanding. The following season brought maiden silverware for the pair as the Reds beat Wigan Athletic in the League Cup final.  
  For Sir Alex and his players, the main aim remained Premier League glory, which was duly snared the following season as United notched a 16th League title, finishing six points clear of reigning champions Chelsea. While the whole squad performed admirably to snatch the title back from Stamford Bridge, the man who took most of the plaudits was Ronaldo, who collected 13 personal honours during the campaign - including the PFA Player and Young Player of the Year award.  
  While it seemed improbable that the winger could top his 2006/07 heroics, he did just that the following season. Ronaldo played a major part - scoring 42 goals - as the Reds saw off the challenge of Chelsea in the two biggest competitions going. Strengthened by the summer signings of Owen Hargreaves, Carlos Tevez, Anderson and Nani, United recovered from a slow start to the season to head the table for almost the entire campaign. Despite a late charge from Chelsea, a final-day victory at Wigan (in which Ryan Giggs scored the clinching goal on the day he equalled the club's all-time appearances record) secured a 17th league title for United.  
  Ten days later, in Moscow, the Reds and Blues duked it out for silverware again as two English clubs met in the final of the Champions League or European Cup for the first time. Ronaldo's opener was cancelled out by Frank Lampard and, after 120 tense minutes, the match went to penalties. Ronaldo's miss gave John Terry the chance to take the trophy, but the Chelsea skipper slipped and smacked his effort against a post. Reprieved, United went on to win the shootout when Edwin van der Sar saved Nicolas Anelka's effort, ensuring that Europe's biggest competition had been won by the men from Manchester for a third time.  
  How do you top a season like 2007/08? Well, Sir Alex's men did their very best and only defeat at the very last hurdle - against Barcelona in the Champions League final - prevented the Reds from a historic trophy haul. Despite ultimate disappointment in Europe, United dominated almost every other competition. In December, the Reds flew to Japan to compete in the FIFA Club World Cup and a solitary Rooney goal against Ecuador's Liga de Quito in the final was enough to crown United world champions.  
  But what sort of effect would a gruelling mid-season trip to the Far East have on the Reds' domestic aspirations? As it turned out, it only made United stronger: Sir Alex's men reeled in Liverpool (seven points clear when the Reds returned from Japan) before going on to win a record-equalling 18th League title. But even before Gary Neville lifted the Barclays Premier League trophy, the Reds had tasted success against Tottenham in the League Cup. On that occasion, goalkeeper Ben Foster was the penalty shootout hero after the scores remained level after 120 minutes. The Reds ended the decade having lifted a remarkable 14 trophies.  
  2010 onwards  
  Despite a solid start to the campaign, United’s 2009/10 term contained a sting in the tail as Chelsea’s late surge for the line ended the Reds’ chances of winning a fourth successive title by a single point in a race which ran until the final day of the season.  
  There was some solace to be found in the retention of the League Cup, achieved at Aston Villa’s expense and secured by a late winner from Wayne Rooney, whose individual excellence was rewarded with both the PFA Player’s Player of the Year and Football Writers’ Player of the Year awards.  
  Despite that single piece of silverware, the 2009/10 campaign was most notable for the heightened stakes of the Manchester derby, with a club takeover inflating the ambition of Manchester City and putting them in the frame for honours. United’s local authority was exerted, however, with home and away Premier League wins and a League Cup semi-final triumph, with each victory dramatically procured in injury-time.  
  Both Manchester clubs were intent on bringing the Premier League trophy back to the North-West as the 2010/11 season began, and United’s squad was bolstered by the low-key captures of promising youngsters Javier Hernandez and Chris Smalling.  
  Though largely unknown, the duo quickly gelled with the squad and, despite a season of largely unconvincing away form, United reclaimed the title for a record 19th domestic rule. While Rooney had powered the 2009/10 campaign with his prolific form in front of goal, 2010/11 was notably more of a squad success.  
  From the goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar – in his last season at the club – through to the ageless influence of Ryan Giggs and Paul Scholes, up to a revitalised Rooney, all hands were at the pump as Chelsea were dethroned. A remarkable home record was the cornerstone of the success but, in Europe, it was miserly away form that helped propel the Reds into another Champions League final against Barcelona, this time at Wembley. For the second time in three years, Lionel Messi and co were ultimately too strong for United on the night, but it was that record 19th league title that made it another season to remember at Old Trafford.  
  The Reds celebrate after being crowned 2010/11 Premier League champions.  
  The bid to quickly usher number 20 into the record books looked strong in the early stages of 2011/12. Sir Alex Ferguson strengthened his squad with the signings of David De Gea, Phil Jones and Ashley Young, while homegrown talents Tom Cleverley and Danny Welbeck made the step up to senior regularity.  
  Despite a breathtaking start to the campaign, the Reds were rocked by a spate of injuries and a thumping home defeat to City, who had emerged as the only genuine challengers for the title. Having fought on admirably against adversity – and welcomed Scholes back in a shock retirement U-turn, United gradually reeled in Roberto Mancini’s side and, with a month of the season remaining, had built an eight-point lead.  
  However, a quickfire run of poor results allowed City to retake the lead on the home straight, and they secured their first title in 44 years in heartbreaking fashion, scoring twice in injury-time on the final day of the season to beat Queens Park Rangers and top the table on goal difference.Inevitably, Sir Alex remained defiant, congratulating the new champions while warning: “We’re disappointed about losing the eight-point lead, but I’m not going to have any recriminations for any of my players. They’re a solid bunch of lads and they’ll be fine. Don’t worry about that.”  
  Sir Alex's prophecy proved right less than 12 months later when his squad, fired by the aforementioned bitter disappointment and bolstered by the signings of Robin van Persie and Shinji Kagawa, romped to a record 20th league title. The triumph was sealed early on 22 April 2013, with top scorer van Persie appropriately netting a hat-trick in a glorious 3-0 home victory over Aston Villa.  
  The end of that 2012/13 season brought the news that millions of Reds had been dreading for a long time: Sir Alex Ferguson was to step down as manager of Manchester United. His retirement was announced on 8 May 2013 and his selection as successor was named the very next day. David Moyes arrived from Everton, tasked with following in the footsteps of British football's most successful manager.  
  It proved to be too tall an order for the Scot, despite his impressive if trophy-less track record at Goodison Park. Towards the end of a disappointing 2013/14 season, with United unable to win any of the cup competitions and lying in seventh place, it was announced that Moyes had left the club. On the same day, 22 April 2014, the Reds' longest serving and most-decorated player Ryan Giggs was placed in temporary charge until the end of the season.  
  Sir Alex Ferguson savours his 13th and final Premier League title.  
  Louis van Gaal's appointment as the permanent new manager - and the club's first boss from outside the UK and Ireland - was announced on 19 May 2014 and he started work in July after guiding his native Netherlands to the semi-finals of the World Cup in Brazil. Giggs, who had retired in May at the end of a long and glorious one-club playing career, was retained by van Gaal in the role of assistant manager.  
  By the close of his first transfer window as United manager, van Gaal had acquired six new players - club record signing Angel Di Maria for £59.7m, Radamel Falcao on loan from Monaco, Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Marcos Rojo and Luke Shaw - and had allowed many other players to leave, resulting in a much-changed squad for 2014/15.  
  With no European fixtures to play, van Gaal's debut season was a purely domestic affair. In the Barclays Premier League, the first objective was achieved as the Reds finished the campaign in the top four and therefore qualified for a return to the Champions League. Further reinforcements for van Gaal's squad came in the summer transfer window of 2015, with the most exciting of the lot arriving in the shape of Anthony Martial, the young French forward from Monaco. But perhaps the most important deal was the new one signed by first-choice keeper David De Gea, who had been pursued by Real Madrid for months prior to his move falling through at the eleventh hour on deadline day.  
  Despite a decent start to 2015/16 - United navigated a Champions League qualifying round by beating Bruges home and away and overcoming Liverpool 3-1 at Old Trafford in the league with a debut goal by Martial - it became a difficult campaign with multiple injuries disrupting van Gaal's plans. Luke Shaw's leg fracture was the most serious of these, ruling him out for the rest of the season from September. That blow occurred away to PSV Eindhoven in the Champions League and the Reds later bowed out by finishing third in the group behind the Dutch side and Wolfsburg. A descent into the Europa League led to elimination by Liverpool over two legs in the last-16 round.  
  An early exit in the League Cup, at home to Middlesbrough on penalties, was more than compensated for by a stirring run in the FA Cup as van Gaal's men brought the trophy back to Old Trafford for a record-equalling 12th time overall and the first time since 2004. But with United's sometimes patchy league form not good enough to secure a top-four position and a place in the Champions League, media speculation about the manager's future was rife. Forty-eight hours after his team won the cup final at Wembley, van Gaal and the club parted company - his tenure was over, two years into a three-year contract.  
  Louis van Gaal enjoys winning the FA Cup in 2016 with Jesse Lingard and Marcus Rashford.  
  Intense speculation that Jose Mourinho would be appointed as United's new manager proved to be accurate on Friday 27 May 2016 when the club announced his arrival in a statement on ManUtd.com. Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward commented: "José is quite simply the best manager in the game today... his track record of success is ideal to take the club forward."  
  Mourinho himself said: "To become Manchester United manager is a special honour in the game. It is a club known and admired throughout the world. There is a mystique and a romance about it which no other club can match."  
  By the time the new 2016/17 Premier League season kicked off, the new boss had already collected his first piece of silverware - the Community Shield, secured with a 2-1 win over league champions Leicester City at Wembley - and he had acquired four exciting new players in Eric Bailly, Zlatan Ibrahmovic, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and club record signing Paul Pogba. The latter embarked on his second spell with United, having previously made seven first-team appearances in 2011/12 after rising through the Academy and Reserves ranks.  
  By the end of Mourinho’s debut season at Old Trafford he had added two more trophies, the League Cup sealed with victory over Southampton thanks to Zlatan’s late Wembley winner and, thrillingly, the Europa League, that trophy completing United’s full set of honours after a cup final triumph over Ajax in Stockholm. In the summer of 2017, the Reds signed a prolific Premier League striker in Romelu Lukaku from Everton. Mourinho also secured the services of midfielder Nemanja Matic from his former club Chelsea and brought in Sweden centre-back Victor Lindelof from Benfica. Having won the Europa League the previous campaign, United started the 2017/18 season with a UEFA Super Cup clash against Real Madrid, but the Spanish side emerged as 2-1 winners with goals from Isco and Casemiro. The Reds recovered well from the disappointment, winning six of the first seven league games. In January 2018, the club signed Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal and the Chilean helped us to amass our best points tally (81) and achieve our highest league position (second, to runaway champions Manchester City) since Sir Alex Ferguson’s departure. We bowed out of the Champions League by losing in the last 16 to Sevilla but we finished the season with the 20th FA Cup final appearance in our history, only for Chelsea to win 1-0 at Wembley and thwart Mourinho's bid for another trophy with United. Michael Carrick retired from playing at the end of the 2017/18 season, 12 years after signing for United, and he instantly took up a place on the coaching staff. Meanwhile, three new players were acquired - midfielder Fred, full-back Diogo Dalot and goalkeeper Lee Grant - before the 2018/19 term began with a 2-1 home win against Leicester City. However, the promising start could not be maintained and in December, with the team placed sixth in the Premier League table, the club decided to part company with Mourinho. The Portuguese coach was replaced by former Reds striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who was appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the campaign. The Norwegian's impact on results was immediately positive as the Reds won his first eight games in charge, beginning with an emphatic 5-1 away win at Cardiff City - the only British club he had previously managed. When Solskjaer's unbeaten start ended after 11 matches, with a home defeat to Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League, he still had the last laugh as Marcus Rashford's 94th-minute penalty in the second leg meant United won the tie on away goals.  
  That triumph against the odds led to further clamour for Ole to become permanent boss and even though the Reds were knocked out of the FA Cup by Wolves in the meantime, his appointment was duly announced three weeks later. Again, United won the next fixture, at home to Watford, but thereafter the campaign petered out. Barcelona inflicted a Champions League exit in the quarter-finals and, with only two Premier League points gained from the last 15 on offer, United finished the 2018/19 season in sixth place. After signing Harry Maguire, Daniel James and Aaron Wan-Bissaka in the summer, the Reds began Solskjaer's first full season at the helm in patchy form, winning fewer than half of the games in all competitions until the turn of the year. Early 2020 defeats to Arsenal, Liverpool and Burnley in the Premier League, and Manchester City in the League Cup semi-finals, compounded the woes until the signing of Bruno Fernandes in the January transfer window sparked a marked improvement. That ultimately led to a memorable March afternoon at Old Trafford when City were put to the sword in a league derby; however, this proved to be our last domestic game before the Covid-19 pandemic put the entire sporting calendar on hiatus. When football returned in June, with fixtures being played in empty stadia, the players picked up from they had left off and only lost two of the season's last 14 games. Regrettably, the two defeats both came in semi-finals - against Chelsea in the FA Cup and Sevilla in the Europa League - but at least the league campaign had ended on a high note. The Reds' 2-0 away win at Leicester City secured third place and Champions League qualification.  
  Bruno Fernandes signs for United in the January 2020 transfer window.  
  Covid restrictions continued to keep fans away from matches for much of 2020/21. In fact, supporters were not permitted inside Old Trafford until the final home game of the season, in May, when Edinson Cavani scored a stunning long-range goal in a 1-1 draw with Fulham. The Uruguayan striker was one of five players signed that season, alongside Donny van de Beek, Alex Telles, Facundo Pellistri and Amad, and Solskjaer's expanded squad achieved an improved Premier League position as the Reds claimed second spot behind local rivals Manchester City. Ole also came agonisingly close to winning the club's first trophy for four years when he guided United to the Europa League final in Gdasnk, only for his side to lose 11-10 on penalties after drawing 1-1 with Villarreal. The Reds were switched into that competition as a consequence of finishing third in the Champions League stage; meanwhile, the club's runs in the FA Cup and League Cup ended in the quarter-finals and semi-finals respectively. 2021/22 began with great excitement and expectation as the stellar signings of Jadon Sancho and Raphael Varane were followed by the sensational return of Cristiano Ronaldo in a surprise transfer from Juventus. The global football icon scored twice on his second Reds debut as Newcastle United were defeated 4-1 in front of an ecstatic Old Trafford crowd, a month after Leeds United were beaten 5-1 with Bruno Fernandes bagging a hat-trick. Victories were otherwise hard to come by and after winning only five of the first 14 games with Ronaldo back in the fold, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's managerial reign came to an end. The Norwegian's departure was announced the day after a humbling 4-1 away defeat at Watford and his assistant and former team-mate Michael Carrick was placed in temporary charge. Carrick achieved two wins and a draw in his three games as caretaker boss but then announced his decision to leave the club when Ralf Rangnick was appointed interim manager until the end of the season. The remaining months proved very challenging for the Reds, who finished sixth in the Premier League and exited all of the other competitions - the League Cup, FA Cup and Champions League - before the quarter-finals. Erik ten Hag was announced as the new permanent manager on 21 April 2022, but the Dutchman would see out the campaign at Ajax before starting work at Carrington. The new boss oversaw some major changes to the squad as the likes of Edinson Cavani, Jesse Lingard, Juan Mata, Nemanja Matic and Paul Pogba departed during the summer, while Tyrell Malacia, Christian Eriksen, Lisandro Martinez, Casemiro and Antony were acquired. The new signings all played their part as the Reds finished third in the Premier League and beat Newcastle United to win the Carabao Cup, the club's first trophy since 2017. And although Ten Hag's men disappointingly lost the FA Cup final to Manchester City and a Europa League quarter-final tie to Sevilla, the Dutchman's first season at the helm, 2022/23, still represented a big improvement on United's preceding campaigns.  
  Having evolved from a Roman castrum in Celtic Britain, in the Victorian era Manchester was a major locus of the Industrial Revolution, and was the site of one of the world's first passenger railway stations as well as many scientific achievements of great importance. Manchester also led the political and economic reform of 19th century Britain as the vanguard of free trade.[3] The mid-20th century saw a decline in Manchester's industrial importance, prompting a depression in social and economic conditions. Subsequent investment, gentrification and rebranding from the 1990s onwards changed its fortunes and reinvigorated Manchester as a post-industrial city with multiple sporting, broadcasting and educational institutions.  
  Manchester has been on a provisional list for UNESCO World Heritage City on numerous occasions. However, since the 1996 bombing, local authorities have persisted on a course of economic evolution rather than prioritising the past. This economic evolution is perhaps best illustrated with the 558-foot (170-metre) Beetham Tower which instantly "torpedoed" any possibility of World Heritage City status according to one author.[4] Despite this, areas perceived as internationally important in the Industrial Revolution, such as Castlefield and Ancoats, have been sympathetically redeveloped.  
  The name Manchester originates from the Latin name Mamucium or its variant Mancunio. These names are generally thought to represent a Latinisation of an original Brittonic name. The generally accepted etymology of this name is that it comes from Brittonic *mamm- ("breast", in reference to a "breast-like hill").[5][6][7] However, more recent work suggests that it could come from *mamma ("mother", in reference to a local river goddess). Both usages are preserved in Insular Celtic languages, such as mam meaning "breast" in Irish and "mother" in Welsh.[8] The suffix -chester is from Old English ceaster ("Roman fortification", itself a loanword from Latin castra, "fort; fortified town").[6][5]  
  The Latin name for Manchester is often given as Mancuniun. This is most likely a neologism coined in Victorian times, similar to the widespread Latin name Cantabrigia for Cambridge (whose actual name in Roman times was Duroliponte[9]).  
  Prehistoric evidence of human activity in the area of Manchester is limited, although scattered stone tools have been found.[10]  
  There is evidence of Bronze Age activity around Manchester in the form of burial sites.[10] Although some prehistoric artefacts have been discovered in the city centre, these have come from redeposited layers, meaning they do not necessarily originate from where they were found; wider evidence has been found for activity in other parts of the borough.[11] Before the Roman invasion of Britain, the location lay within the territory dominated by the Brigantes and prior to the Roman conquest of the area in the 70s AD, it was part of the territory of the Brigantes, a Celtic tribe, although it may have been under the control of the Setantii, a sub-tribe of the Brigantes.[12]  
  The Roman fort of Mamucium was established c. AD 79 near a crossing point on the River Medlock.[13] The fort was sited on a sandstone bluff near the confluence of the rivers Medlock and Irwell in a naturally defensible position.[14] It was erected as a series of fortifications established by Gnaeus Julius Agricola during his campaign against the Brigantes who were the Celtic tribe in control of most of what would become northern England.[15] It guards the Deva Victrix (Chester) to Eboracum (York) Roman road running east to west, and a road heading north to Bremetennacum (Ribchester).[16] The neighbouring forts were Castleshaw and Northwich.[17] Built first from turf and timber, the fort was demolished around 140. When it was rebuilt around 160, it was again of turf and timber construction.[18] In about 200 the fort underwent another rebuild, this time enhancing the defences by replacing the gatehouse with a stone version and facing the walls with stone.[19] The fort would have been garrisoned by a cohort, about 500 infantry, of auxiliary troops.[20]  
  Evidence of both pagan and Christian worship has been discovered. Two altars have been discovered and there may be a temple of Mithras associated with Mamucium. A word square was discovered in the 1970s that may be one of the earliest examples of Christianity in Britain.[21] A civilian settlement (the first in Manchester), or vicus, grew in association with the fort, made up of traders and families of the soldiers. An area which has a concentration of furnaces and industrial activity has been described as an industrial estate.[22] The vicus was probably abandoned by the mid 3rd century, although a small garrison may have remained at Mamucium into the late 3rd and early 4th centuries.[23] The Castlefield area of Manchester is named after the fort.  
  Once the Romans left Britain, the focus of settlement in Manchester shifted to the confluence of the rivers Irwell and Irk.[24] During the Early Middle Ages that followed – and persisted until the Norman conquest – the settlement of Manchester was in the territory of several different kingdoms.[25] In the late 6th and early 7th centuries, the kingdom of Northumbria extended as far south as the River Mersey, south of what was then the settlement of Manchester.[25] Etymological evidence indicates that the areas to the north west of Manchester (such as Eccles and Chadderton) were British while the parts of Manchester (such as Clayton, Gorton and Moston) were Anglian, and the south west of Manchester was Danish (including Cheadle Hulme, Davyhulme, Hulme and Levenshulme).[25]  
  Between the 6th and 10th centuries, the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia and Wessex struggled for control over North West England.[25] In 620, Edwin of Northumbria may have sacked Manchester, and the settlement may have been sacked again in 870 by the Danes.[26] According to legend, Nico Ditch – which runs east–west from Ashton-under-Lyne to Stretford and passes through Gorton, Levenshulme, Burnage, Rusholme, Platt Field Park in Fallowfield, Withington and Chorlton-cum-Hardy – is a defence against Viking invaders and was dug in 869–870. Whether this is true is uncertain, but the ditch does date from between the 7th and 9th centuries.[27] The Anglo Saxon Chronicle detail that in 919 Edward the Elder sent men "to Mameceaster, in Northumbria, to repair and man it"; this probably refers to a burh at Manchester as an advanced post of Mercia. Although it is unsure where the site is,[28] it is possibly a reference to the Roman fort.[26] In 1055, most of what later became Lancashire was under the control of Tostig.[26]  
  The ancient parish of Manchester covered a wider area than today's metropolitan borough (although not including its full extent), and was probably established in the Anglo-Saxon period (there were at that time only two churches in the parish: at Manchester and Ashton-under-Lyne). Forty distinct townships developed in the parish and in medieval times the royal manor of Salford was the most important of these.  
  Manchester was administratively part of the Salford Hundred.[29] In 1086 the hundred covered about 350 square miles (910 km2) and had a population of about 3,000.[30] It was given to Roger de Poitou; Roger divided the hundred into fiefdoms and made the Gresle family barons of Manchester. Albert de Gresle was the first baron of Manchester.[29] Although the Gresle family did not reside at the manor, Manchester continued to grow in their absence and stewards represented the lords of the manor.[31]  
  Manchester's entry in the Domesday Book reads "the Church of St Mary and the Church of St Michael hold one carucate of land in Manchester exempt from all customary dues except tax".[32] St Mary's Church was an Anglo-Saxon church on the site of Manchester Cathedral;[32] St Michael's Church may have been in Ashton-under-Lyne.[30] The parish of Manchester – of which St Mary's Church was a part – was the ecclesiastical centre of the Salford Hundred. It covered about 60 square miles (160 km2) and extended as far as the edges of Flixton and Eccles in the west, the Mersey between Stretford and Stockport in the south, the edge of Ashton-under-Lyne in the east, and the edge of Prestwich in the north.[30] That such a large area was covered by a single parish has been taken as evidence of the area's "impoverished and depopulated status". The only tax the parish was subject to was Danegeld.[30]  
  There was a castle in Manchester overlooking the rivers Irk and Irwell, where Chetham's School of Music stands today.[29] This castle was probably a ringwork[33] and has been described as "of no political or military importance".[29] By the late 13th century the Grelleys or Gresles, who were barons of Manchester for two centuries,[29] had replaced the castle with a fortified manor house. They used the house as the administrative centre of the manor.[34] While the town was owned by the lords of the manor, they directly leased land to tenants and created burgage tenements for indirect rent; as well as containing a house, these plots of land could also contain workshops and gardens.[34] The family also owned the only corn mill in the manor which was used by all the tenants of the manor to grind their corn. Medieval Manchester was centred on the manor house and the Church of St Mary mentioned in the Domesday Book.[34] As well as a castle at Manchester, there was also one in Ringway. Ullerwood Castle, a motte-and-bailey, probably dates from the 12th century and was owned by Hamon de Massey who owned several manors in the north east of Cheshire.[35]  
  The first lord of the manor to actually live in Manchester was Robert Grelley (1174–1230); his presence led to an influx of skilled workers, such as stonemasons and carpenters, associated with the construction of the manor house.[36] In the early 13th century, Manchester for a period was not under the control of the Grelleys. Robert Grelley was one of the barons who made King John sign Magna Carta. Grelley was excommunicated for his role in the rebellion and when King John later ignored the terms of Magna Carta, Grelley forfeited his lands. King John died in 1216 and Hubert de Burgh, 1st Earl of Kent, returned Grelley's land to him on behalf of King Henry III[36] In the medieval period Manchester grew into a market town and had a market every Saturday.[37] In 1223, Manchester gained the right to hold an annual fair; the market was held in Acresfield – where St Ann's Square is today – on what was then arable land. It was the first fair to be established in the Salford Hundred and the fourth in south Lancashire.[38] Manchester became a market town in 1301 when it received its Charter.[34] On 1 November 1315, Manchester was the starting place of a rebellion by Adam Banastre.[31] Banastre, Henry de Lea, and William de Bradshagh rebelled against Thomas, 2nd Earl of Lancaster.[39]  
  The medieval town's defences incorporated the rivers Irk and Irwell on two sides and a 450-yard (410 m) long ditch on the others. The ditch, known as Hanging Ditch, was up to 40 yards (37 m) wide and 40 yards (37 m) deep. It was spanned by Hanging Bridge, the main route in and out of the town. The name may derive from hangan meaning hollow,[40] although there is an alternative derivation from the Old English hen, meaning wild birds, and the Welsh gan, meaning between two hills.[41] It dates to at least 1343 but may be even older.[42]  
  In the 14th century, Manchester became home to a community of Flemish weavers, who settled in the town to produce wool and linen. This in part helped to develop a tradition of cloth production in the region, which in turn sparked the growth of the city to become Lancashire's major industrial centre. The various townships and chapelries of the ancient parish of Manchester became separate civil parishes in 1866.  
  Thomas de la Warre was a Lord of the Manor and also a priest. He obtained licences from the Pope and King Henry V to enable him to found and endow a collegiate church, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin, St. George and St. Denys or St. Denis, the latter two being the patron saints of England and France respectively. Construction began around 1422, and continued until the first quarter of the 16th century. The 'merchant princes' of the town endowed a number of chantry chapels, reflecting an increasing prosperity based on wool. This church later became Manchester Cathedral.  
  Thomas also gave the site of the old manor house as a residence for the priests. It remains as one of the finest examples of a medieval secular religious building in Britain and is now the home of Chetham's School of Music.  
  By the 16th century the wool trade had made Manchester a flourishing market town. The collegiate church, which is now the cathedral, was finally completed in 1500–1510. The magnificent carved choir stalls date from this period, and in 1513 work began on a chapel endowed by James Stanley, Bishop of Ely, in thanksgiving for the safe return of his kinsman (sometimes said to be his son) John Stanley from the Battle of Flodden.  
  The English Reformation resulted in the collegiate church being refounded as a Protestant institution. One of the more famous Wardens of this institution at the time was Dr John Dee, known as "Queen Elizabeth's Merlin".  
  The town's growth was given further impetus in 1620 with the start of fustian weaving. In this period Manchester grew heavily due to an influx of Flemish settlers who founded Manchester's new weaving industry.[43] In the course of the 17th century, thanks to the development of the textile industry and contacts with the City of London, Manchester became a noted centre of puritanism. Consequently, it sided with Parliament in the quarrel with Charles I. Indeed, it might be said that the English Civil War started here. In 1642, Lord Strange, the Royalist son of the Earl of Derby attempted to seize the militia magazine stored in the old college building. In the ensuing scuffle, Richard Percival, a linen weaver, was killed. He is reckoned by some to be the first casualty in the English Civil War.  
  Lord Strange returned and attempted to besiege the town, which had no permanent fortifications. With the help of John Rosworm, a German mercenary, the town was vigorously defended. Captain Bradshaw and his musketeers resolutely manned the bridge to Salford. Eventually, Strange realised that his force was ill-prepared, and after hearing that his father had died, withdrew to claim his title.  
  During the Commonwealth, Manchester was granted a seat in Parliament for the first time. Maj Gen Charles Worsley, scion of an old Lancashire family and one of Cromwell's most trusted lieutenants, had been given the Mace at the famous dissolution of Parliament in 1654. Elected Manchester's first MP, he did not sit for long before Parliament was again dissolved, leading to the Rule of the Major Generals: effectively martial law. Worsley, given responsibility for Lancashire, Cheshire and Staffordshire, took his duties seriously, turning out alehouses, banning bear baiting and cracking down on the celebration of Christmas. He eventually died in 1656, at a time of the gradual ebbing away of Cromwell's authority.[44]  
  On the English Restoration in 1660, as a reprisal for its defence of the Parliamentarian cause, Manchester was deprived of its recently granted Members of Parliament. No MP was to sit for Manchester until 1832. The consequences of the restoration led to a great deal of soul searching. One clergyman, Henry Newcombe, could not remain in the remodelled Anglican Church, and was instrumental in the establishment of the Cross Street Chapel in 1694. This later passed into Unitarian hands, and a new chapel on the original site can be visited.  
  Humphrey Chetham purchased the old college buildings after the civil war, and endowed it as a bluecoat school. Chetham's Hospital, as it was known, later became Chetham's School of Music. The endowment included a collection of books, which in 1653 became Chetham's Library, the first free public library in the English-speaking world. As of 2017, it is still open and free to use.[45]  
  Despite the political setbacks, the town continued to prosper. A number of inhabitants supported the Glorious Revolution in 1688. They became discontented with the Tory clergy at the collegiate church, and a separate church, more to their tastes, was founded by Lady Ann Bland. St Ann's Church is a fine example of an early Georgian church, and was consecrated in 1712. The surroundings, what is now St Ann's Square but was previously known as Acresfield, were in imitation of a London square.  
  About this time, Defoe described the place as "the greatest mere village in England", by which he meant that a place the size of a populous market town had no form of local government to speak of, and was still subject to the whims of a lord of the manor.  
  In 1745, Charles Edward Stuart and his army entered Manchester en route to London. Despite its previous radicalism, the town offered no resistance and the Jacobites obtained enough recruits to form a 'Manchester Regiment'. It is suggested that this was because the town had no local government to speak of, and the magistrates, who could have organised resistance, were mostly conservative landowners. Moreover, these Tory landowners had taken to apprenticing their sons to Manchester merchants, so the political complexion of the town's elite had changed. The Jacobite army got no further than Derby and then retreated. On their way back through Manchester, the stragglers were pelted by the mob. The luckless 'Manchester Regiment' were left behind to garrison Carlisle, where they quickly surrendered to the pursuing British Army.  
  Manchester remained a small market town until the late 18th century and the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. The Spinning Jenny in 1764 marked the beginning of the Industrial Revolution and brought with it the first fully mechanised production process. The myriad small valleys in the Pennine Hills to the north and east of the town, combined with the damp climate, proved ideal for the construction of water-powered cotton mills such as Quarry Bank Mill,[47] which industrialised the spinning and weaving of cloth.  
  Indeed, it was the importing of cotton, which began towards the end of the 18th century, that revolutionised the textile industry in the area. This new commodity was imported through the port of Liverpool, which was connected with Manchester by the Mersey and Irwell Navigation—the two rivers had been made navigable from the 1720s onwards.  
  Manchester now developed as the natural distribution centre for raw cotton and spun yarn, and a marketplace and distribution centre for the products of this growing textile industry. Richard Arkwright is credited as the first to erect a cotton mill in the city. His first experiment, installing a Newcomen steam engine to pump water for a waterwheel failed, but he next adapted a Watt steam engine to directly operate the machinery. The result was the rapid spread of cotton mills throughout Manchester itself and in the surrounding towns. To these must be added bleach works, textile print works, and the engineering workshops and foundries, all serving the cotton industry. During the mid-19th century Manchester grew to become the centre of Lancashire's cotton industry and was dubbed "Cottonopolis", and a branch of the Bank of England was established in 1826.  
  The city had one of the first telephone exchanges in Europe (possibly the first in the UK) when in 1879 one was opened on Faulkner Street in the city centre using the Bell patent system.[48] By 1881 it had 420 subscribers—just 7 years later a new exchange had the capacity for 10 times that number. Manchester Central exchange was still the largest outside the capital in Edwardian times when it employed 200 operators and the city had several other important roles in the history of telephony.  
  The growth of the city was matched by the expansion of its transport links. The growth of steam power meant that demand for coal rocketed. To meet this demand, the first canal of the industrial era, the Duke's Canal, often referred to as the Bridgewater Canal, was opened in 1761, linking Manchester to the coal mines at Worsley. This was soon extended to the Mersey Estuary. Soon an extensive network of canals was constructed, linking Manchester to all parts of England.  
  One of the world's first public omnibus services began in 1824; it ran from Market Street in Manchester to Pendleton and Salford.  
  In 1830, Manchester was again at the forefront of transport technology with the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, the world's first steam passenger railway. This provided faster transport of raw materials and finished goods between the port of Liverpool and mills of Manchester. By 1838, Manchester was connected by rail with Birmingham and London, and by 1841 with Hull. The existing horse-drawn omnibus services were all acquired by the Manchester Carriage Company, Ltd in 1865. Horse-drawn trams began in Salford (1877) and Manchester (1880–81), were succeeded by electric trams in 1901–03 and by 1930 Manchester Corporation Tramways were running the third largest system in the UK.[49]  
  The Industrial Revolution resulted in Manchester's population exploding as people moved from other parts of the British Isles into the city seeking new opportunities.  
  Particularly large numbers came from Ireland, especially after the Great Famine of the 1840s. In 1851 it was estimated that 15% of the population of Manchester were Irish born. The first Irish community in the city was said to date back to 1798 and with further waves of immigration from Ireland coming after the second World War. The Irish influence continues to this day and, every March Manchester plays host to a large St Patrick's Day parade. It is estimated that about 35% of the population of Manchester and Salford has some Irish ancestry.[50]  
  Scottish migration in to Manchester can be traced back to before 1745 when the Jacobites marched through the city but the population of Scottish born residents peaked at almost 2% of the city's total population in 1871. Many of the city's machine making firms which powered the Industrial Revolution had their roots in emigrant Scottish engineers.[51]  
  A Welsh community has existed in Manchester since the 16th century.[52] In 1892 there was 80,000 Welsh born residents in the North West of England with particularly high concentrations in Manchester and Liverpool. David Lloyd George was born in the city and Welsh socialist Robert Jones Derfel spent much of his life in the city.[53]  
  Large numbers of (mostly Jewish) immigrants later came to Manchester from Central and Eastern Europe. The area, including Broughton, Prestwich and Whitefield today has a Jewish population of about 40,000. This is the largest Jewish community outside London by quite some way. To these groups may be added (in later years) Levantines (involved in the Egyptian cotton trade), Germans and Italians. The German influence can be seen in the city's Halle Orchestra and the Ancoats area of the city was known as Little Italy. By the beginning of the 20th century, Manchester was a very cosmopolitan place and had additionally received immigrants from France, Greece, Armenia, Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine. The opening of the Manchester Ship Canal in 1894 lead to influx of workers from Africa, Asia, Middle East and Scandinavia.  
  There has been a presence of Black people in Manchester since the 1700s. There are records of black people being buried at Manchester Cathedral from 1757. The abolitionist Thomas Clarkson noted during a speech in Manchester in 1787 "'I was surprised also to find a great crowd of black people standing round the pulpit. There might be forty or fifty of them.'[54]  
  From the 1940s onwards further waves of immigration brought Cypriots and Hungarians fleeing conflict but in the largest numbers came people re-settling from the British Colonies of the Indian subcontinent, Caribbean and Hong Kong. There has been a Chinese community in the city since the early 20th century.[55] Chinatown, Manchester is said to be the second largest in the United Kingdom and the third largest in Europe.  
  It has been suggested as a result of the last two hundred years that Manchester having been involved in all these periods of immigration is the most polyglot of all British cities aside from London[57]  
  Manchester's rapid growth into a significant industrial centre meant the pace of change was fast and frightening. At that time, it seemed a place in which anything could happen—new industrial processes, new ways of thinking (the so-called 'Manchester School', promoting free trade and laissez-faire), new classes or groups in society, new religious sects and new forms of labour organisation. Such radicalism culminated in the opening of the Free Trade Hall which had several incarnations until its current building was occupied in 1856. It attracted educated visitors from all parts of Britain and Europe. "What Manchester does today," it was said, "the rest of the world does tomorrow." Benjamin Disraeli, at that time a young novelist, had one of his characters express such sentiments. "The age of ruins is past ... Have you seen Manchester? Manchester is as great a human exploit as Athens ...".[58]  
  At the beginning of the 19th century, Manchester was still governed by a court leet on the medieval model, and a Boroughreeve was responsible for law and order during the daylight hours. The Manchester and Salford Police Act 1792 (32 Geo. 3. c. 69) created police commissioners, whose job was to provide a night-watch. The commissioners were also given responsibility for road-building, street cleaning, street lighting and the maintenance of fire engines.[59]  
  The end of the 18th century saw the first serious recession in the textile trade. There were food riots in 1797, and soup kitchens were established in 1799. Manchester was the scene of the Blanketeer agitation in 1817. Popular unrest was paralleled by discontent with Manchester's lack of representation at Westminster, and the town quickly became a centre of radical agitation.  
  The protest turned to bloodshed in the summer of 1819. A meeting was held in St Peter's Field on 16 August to demonstrate for parliamentary reform. It was addressed by Henry Hunt, a powerful speaker known as Orator Hunt. Local magistrates, fearful of the large crowd estimated at 60,000–80,000, ordered volunteer cavalry from the Manchester and Salford Yeomanry to clear a way through the crowd to arrest Hunt and the platform party. The Yeomanry were armed with sabres and some reports say that many of them were drunk. They lost control and started to strike out at members of the crowd. The magistrates, believing that the Yeomanry were under attack, then ordered the 15th Hussars to disperse the crowd, which they did by charging into the mass of men, women and children, sabres drawn. These events resulted in the deaths of fifteen people and over six hundred injured. The name "Peterloo" was coined immediately by the radical Manchester Observer, combining the name of the meeting place, St Peter's Field, with the Battle of Waterloo fought four years earlier. One of those who later died from his wounds had been present at Waterloo, and told a friend shortly before his death that he had never been in such danger as at Peterloo: "At Waterloo there was man to man but there it was downright murder."[60]  
  This wealth fuelled the development of science and education in Manchester. The Manchester Academy had moved to York in 1803 and, though it returned in 1840, in 1853 it moved again to London, eventually becoming Harris Manchester College, Oxford. However, a Mechanics' Institute, later to become UMIST, was founded in 1824 by among others, John Dalton the "father of atomic theory". In 1851 Owens College was founded by the trustees of John Owens, a textile merchant who had left a bequest for that purpose. Owens College was to become the first constituent college of the Victoria University which was granted its Royal Charter in 1880. This flowering of radicalism and reform took place within the context of ferment in Manchester's cultural and intellectual life. John Dalton lectured on his atomic theory at the Literary and Philosophical Society in 1803. The establishment of the Portico Library in 1806, the Royal Manchester Institution (later the Art Gallery) in 1823, and the Manchester Botanical and Horticultural Society in 1827 are evidence of this.  
  In 1841, Robert Angus Smith took up work as an analytical chemist at the Royal Manchester Institution and started to research the unprecedented environmental problems. Smith went on to become the first director of the Alkali Inspectorate and to characterise, and coin the term, acid rain.  
  Manchester continued to be a nexus of political radicalism. From 1842 to 1844, the German social philosopher Friedrich Engels lived there and wrote his influential book Condition of the Working Class in England (1845). He habitually met Karl Marx in an alcove at Chetham's Library.  
  In 1851, the Borough became the first local authority to seek water supplies beyond its boundaries.  
  By 1853, the number of cotton mills in Manchester had reached its peak of 108.[63] Warehouses became commonplace in what now makes up the city centre. These 19th century Mancunian warehouses were often decorative and ornate for a building of such simple function. The most notable 19th century warehouse is Watts Warehouse on Portland Street.  
  The Cooperative Wholesale Society was formed in 1863.[64] Manchester is now home to the Co-operative Group, the largest mutual business in the world with over six million members. The group remained based on their listed estate in Manchester city centre.  
  The outbreak of the American Civil War in 1861 saw an immediate shortage of cotton and the ensuing cotton famine brought enormous distress to the area until the war ended in 1865.  
  Manchester's golden age was perhaps the last quarter of the 19th century. Many of the great public buildings (including the town hall) date from then. The city's cosmopolitan atmosphere contributed to a vibrant culture, which included the Hallé Orchestra. In 1889, when county councils were created in England, the municipal borough became a county borough with even greater autonomy.  
  During the late 19th century Manchester began to suffer an economic decline, partly exacerbated by its reliance on the Port of Liverpool, which was charging excessive dock usage fees. Championed by local industrialist Daniel Adamson, the Manchester Ship Canal was built as a way to reverse this. It gave the city direct access to the sea allowing it to export its manufactured goods directly. This meant that it no longer had to rely on the railways and Liverpool's ports. When completed in 1894 it allowed Manchester to become Britain's third busiest port, despite being 40 miles (64 km) inland. The Manchester Ship Canal was created by canalising the Rivers Irwell and Mersey for 36 miles (58 km) from Salford to the Mersey estuary at the port of Liverpool. This enabled oceangoing ships to sail right into the Port of Manchester (actually in Salford). The docks functioned until the 1970s when their closure led to a large increase in unemployment in the area.  
  Trafford Park in Stretford (outside the city boundaries) was the world's first industrial estate and still exists today, though with a significant tourist and recreational presence. Manchester suffered greatly from the inter-war depression and the underlying structural changes that began to supplant the old industries, including textile manufacture.  
  The municipal borough created in 1838 covered the six townships of Ardwick, Beswick, Cheetham, Chorlton-on-Medlock, Hulme and Manchester.[62] The borough became a city in 1853. Expansion of the city limits was constrained westwards, as Salford immediately to the west had been given its own borough charter in 1844. These areas were included in the city limits of Manchester at these dates:-  
  By 1900 the Manchester city region was the 9th most populous in the world.[66] In the early 20th century Manchester's economy diversified into engineering chemical and electrical industries. The stimulus of the ship canal saw the establishment of Trafford Park, the world's first industrial park, in 1910 and the arrival of the Ford Motor Company and Westinghouse Electric Corporation from the USA. The influence is still visible in "Westinghouse Road" and a grid layout of numbered streets and avenues.  
  In 1931 the population of Manchester reached an all-time peak of 766,311. However, the period from the 1930s onwards saw a continuous decline in population. During this period, textile manufacture, Manchester's traditional staple industry went into steep decline, largely due to the Great Depression of the 1930s and foreign competition.[citation needed] During this period the Women's Citizens League campaigned for better maternity facilities in the city.[67]  
  Significant changes in this period were the move of the Manchester Royal Infirmary from Piccadilly in 1908 and the building of a new public library and town hall extension in the 1930s.  
  In the Second World War Manchester played a key role as an industrial manufacturing city, including the Avro aircraft factory (now BAE Systems) which built countless aircraft for the RAF, the most famous being the Avro Lancaster bomber. As a consequence of its war efforts, the city suffered heavily from bombing during the Blitz in 1940 to 1941. It was attacked a number of times by the Luftwaffe, particularly in the "Christmas Blitz" of December 1940, which destroyed a large part of the historic city centre and seriously damaged the cathedral, which took 20 years to restore.[68] In total, 589 civilians are recorded to have died as result of enemy action within the Manchester County Borough.[69]  
  The 1950s saw the start of Manchester's rise as a football superpower. Despite the Munich air disaster, Manchester United F.C. went on to become one of the world's most famous clubs, rising to a dominance of the English game from the early 1990s onwards.  
  Mancunian Films had been established by John E. Blakeley in the 1930s as a vehicle for northern comedians such as George Formby and Frank Randle. The company opened its own studios, Dickenson Road Studios, in Manchester in 1947 and produced a successful sequence of films until Blakeley's retirement six years later. The studio was sold to the BBC in 1954, the same year that saw the advent of commercial television in the UK. The establishment of Granada Television based in the city attracted much of the production talent from the studios and continued Manchester's tradition of cultural innovation, often with its trademark social radicalism in its programming.  
  The same period saw the rise to national celebrity of local stars from the Granada TV soap opera Coronation Street, which was first aired on ITV in December 1960 and remains on air more than 60 years later.  
  The city also attracted international media and public attention for the success of its two senior football clubs—Manchester United and Manchester City.  
  Manchester United had won two league titles and a FA Cup in the first two decades of the 20th century, but the inter-war years had been blighted by a loss of form on the pitch and ongoing financial problems. The club's revival occurred with the appointment of Matt Busby as manager in 1945; he guided the club to an FA Cup triumph in 1948 and a league title in 1952. He then built a highly successful new side consisting of mostly young players (nicknamed the Busby Babes by the media) which went on to win two league titles and became the first English club to play in the new European Cup. Then tragedy struck in February 1958; eight of the club's players (three of them established England internationals; Roger Byrne, Tommy Taylor and Duncan Edwards) died as a result of the Munich air disaster on the return flight from a European Cup tie in Yugoslavia and two others injured to such an extent that they never played again. Busby, who was seriously injured in the crash, was left to build a new team.[70] His new United side, built around Munich crash survivors including Bill Foulkes and Bobby Charlton, went on to dominate the English game in the 1960s, featuring new stars like Denis Law and George Best, winning two more league titles, a FA Cup and then the European Cup in 1968—the first English club to win the trophy. Busby retired the following year after 24 years in charge.[71] The club was less successful in the 1970s, its only major trophy of the decade being the FA Cup in 1977, and the club even spent a season outside the top division of English football. The 1980s were slightly more successful with a further two FA Cups wins and regular top four league finishes, but the club has enjoyed an unmatched run of success which began after the appointment of Alex Ferguson as manager in 1986. By the time Ferguson retired in 2013 after 27 years as manager, the club had won a further 13 league titles, five FA Cups, four League Cups and two European Cups. High-profile players to have played for the club during Sir Alex Ferguson's management (he was knighted in 1999) include Bryan Robson, Mark Hughes, Ryan Giggs, Eric Cantona, David Beckham and Wayne Rooney.  
  Manchester City entered the Football League in 1899, and won their first major honour with the FA Cup in 1904. Manchester City had been league champions once and FA Cup winners twice by 1939, but enjoyed further success in the post-war years, starting with an FA Cup win in 1956. The club's next success came more than a decade later, with a league championship triumph in 1968, an FA Cup triumph in 1969, and a double of the European Cup Winners' Cup and Football League Cup in 1970 under the management of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison. Great players of the 1950s and 1960s sides included Don Revie, Bert Trautmann, Francis Lee, Colin Bell and Tony Book.[72] They won the League Cup in 1976 but after losing the 1981 FA Cup Final, the club went through a period of decline, which eventually saw them relegated as far down as third tier of English football by the end of the 1997–98 season.  
  They since regained promotion to the top tier in 2001–02 and have remained a fixture in the Premier League since 2002–03. For 80 years until 2003, the club had played at the Maine Road stadium in the Moss Side area of the city, before moving to the City of Manchester Stadium to the east of the city centre, which had been constructed for the previous year's Commonwealth Games. In 2008, Manchester City was purchased by Abu Dhabi United Group for £210 million and received considerable financial investment. The club's next major trophy was the FA Cup in 2011. The club's first top division league title for 44 years followed in 2012, and a League Cup triumph followed in 2014.  
  As with many British cities during the period. The 1950s and 1960s saw extensive re-development of the city, with old and overcrowded housing cleared to make way for high-rise blocks of flats. This changed the appearance of Manchester considerably, although the high-rise experiment later proved unpopular and unsuccessful. The city-centre also saw major re-development, with developments such as the Manchester Arndale.  
  In the late 1950s, Manchester was chosen as a testing ground for a new telephone service which formed the foundations of what we now know of as mobile phone technology. The "Post Office South Lancashire Radiophone Service" was controlled from the city's Peterloo telephone exchange and enabled customers with the apparatus installed in their vehicle to phone to any UK subscriber.  
  In 1974, Manchester was split from the county of Lancashire, and the Metropolitan Borough of Manchester was created.  
  The diversification of the city's economy helped to cushion the blow of this decline. However, as with many inner-city areas, the growth of car ownership and commuting meant that many people moved from the inner-city and into surrounding suburbs. By 1971 the population of Manchester had declined to 543,868, and by 2001 422,302.  
  During the 1980s, with the demise of many traditional industries under the radical economic restructuring often known as Thatcherism, the city and region experienced some decline. The revival started towards the end of the decade, catalysed, not only by wider growing prosperity in the UK but by the creative music industry. New institutions such as Factory Records and Fac 51 Hacienda earned the city the sobriquet Madchester.  
  At 11.20 am on Saturday 15 June 1996, the IRA detonated a large bomb in the city centre, the largest to be detonated on British soil. Fortunately, warnings given in the previous hour had allowed the evacuation of the immediate area, so this bomb caused over 200 injuries but no deaths. The principal damage was to the physical infrastructure of nearby buildings. Since then the city centre has undergone extensive rejuvenation alongside the more general efforts to regenerate previously run-down areas of the wider city (such as Hulme and Salford). This reconstruction spurred a massive regeneration of the city centre, with complexes such as the Printworks and the Triangle creating new city focal points for both shopping and entertainment. The following regeneration took over a decade to complete. The completion of the renovated Manchester Arndale in September 2006 allowed the centre to hold the title of the UK's largest city centre shopping mall.[77] The bomb is commemorated by a plaque fixed to a nearby postbox which withstood the blast, which reads "This postbox remained standing almost undamaged on June 15, 1996 when this area was devastated by a bomb. The box was removed during the rebuilding of the city centre and was returned to its original site on November 22nd 1999."  
  In 2002, the city hosted the XVII Commonwealth Games very successfully, earning praise from many previously sceptical sources. Manchester has twice failed in its bid to host the Olympic Games, losing to Atlanta in 1996 and Sydney in 2000.  
  In the 1990s, Manchester earned a reputation for gang-related crime, particularly after a spate of shootings involving young men, and reports of teenagers carrying handguns as "fashion accessories". A more concerted effort to reduce such crime has focused on prohibiting the availability of firearms, working with the community, deterring young individuals from joining gangs and jailing ringleaders have all helped to reduce gun crime. Consequently, gun crime has plummeted year on year since 2007.[78][79] Crime figures from 2011 show there were 19.2 firearm crimes per 100,000 population in Greater Manchester—compared to 35.1 in the Metropolitan Police area and City of London, and 34.3 in the West Midlands.[80]  
  The Canal Street area of the city is well known as the "Gay Village". Manchester's claim to the status of "gay capital of the UK" was strengthened in 2003 when it played host city to the annual Europride festival.[81][82]  
  During the 1980s, the Victoria University of Manchester had somewhat complacently exploited its reputation as one of the leading red brick universities. During the same period, many of those universities established post-war vigorously pursued policies of growth and innovation. The university consequently saw its standing decline and only in the 1990s did it embark on a catch-up programme. In October 2004 the Victoria University of Manchester and UMIST merged to form the University of Manchester, the largest University in the UK with ambitious plans to be one of the world's leading research-intensive universities.  
  Since the regeneration after the 1996 IRA bomb, and aided by the XVII Commonwealth Games, Manchester's city centre has changed significantly. Large sections of the city dating from the 1960s have been either demolished and re-developed or modernised with the use of glass and steel; a good example of this transformation is the Manchester Arndale. Many old mills and textile warehouses have been converted into apartments, helping to give the city a much more modern, upmarket look and feel. Some areas, like Hulme (first unsuccessfully regenerated in the 1960s when multi-storey flats replaced Victorian slums), have undergone extensive regeneration programmes and many million-pound lofthouse apartments have since been developed to cater for its growing business community. The 168 metre tall, 47-storey Beetham Tower, completed in 2006, provides the highest residential accommodation in the United Kingdom — the lower 23 floors form the Hilton Hotel, while the upper 24 floors are apartments. The Beetham Tower was originally planned to stand 171 metres in height, but this had to be changed due to local wind conditions.[83]  
  In January 2007, the independent Casino Advisory Panel awarded Manchester a licence to build the only supercasino in the UK to regenerate the Eastlands area of the city,[84] but in March the House of Lords rejected the decision by three votes rendering previous House of Commons acceptance meaningless. This left the supercasino, and 14 other smaller concessions, in parliamentary limbo until a final decision was made.[85] On 11 July 2007, a source close to the government declared the entire supercasino project "dead in the water".[86] A member of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce professed himself "amazed and a bit shocked" and that "there has been an awful lot of time and money wasted".[87] After a meeting with the Prime Minister, Manchester City Council issued a press release on 24 July 2007 stating that "contrary to some reports the door is not closed to a regional casino".[88] The supercasino was officially declared dead in February 2008 with a compensation package described by the Manchester Evening News as "rehashed plans, spin and empty promises".[89]  
  By 2011, Manchester and Salford were on a tentative list for UNESCO World Heritage Site status.[91] The proposal centres on the Bridgewater Canal, regarded as the first true canal which helped create the industrial revolution.  
  On 22 May 2017, the city suffered its worst postwar tragedy when an Islamic extremist, Libyan immigrant Salaman Abedi, carried out a suicide bombing following a concert by the American singer Ariana Grande at the Manchester Arena. Abedi killed himself and 22 other people, and injured over 800, with many of the casualties being children, teenagers and young adults.[93] It was the deadliest terrorist attack and the first suicide bombing in Britain since the 7 July 2005 London bombings. The attack caused worldwide condemnation and the changing of the UK's threat level to "critical" for the first time since 2007.[94] Many of the injured and dead were from the Greater Manchester area and neighbouring parts of Cheshire and Lancashire.  
  The town of Manchester (as it was then) was granted a charter in 1301 by Thomas de Grelley, Baron of Manchester, who was also the Lord of the Manor of Manchester, but the borough status it conferred on the town was lost following a court case in 1359.[95]  
  Until the 19th century, Manchester was one of the many townships in the ancient parish of Manchester which covered a wider area than today's metropolitan borough.  
  In 1792 commissioners, usually known as police commissioners, were established for the improvement of the Township of Manchester.  
  The Municipal Corporations Act 1835 converted many older boroughs into a new standardised type of borough called municipal boroughs, with elected councils, and included provisions to allow other towns to become municipal boroughs. Manchester took advantage of the new provisions and secured a charter incorporating the town as a municipal borough on 23 October 1838. The borough as created in 1838 covered the six townships of Ardwick, Beswick, Cheetham, Chorlton-on-Medlock, Hulme and Manchester. The municipal borough was slightly smaller than the parliamentary constituency of Manchester which had been created under the Reform Act 1832, which also included Bradford, Harpurhey and Newton.[95][62] The first election to the borough council (also called the corporation) was held on 14 December 1838. The council held its first meeting on 15 December 1838 at the Manor Court Room on Brown Street, when Thomas Potter was appointed the first Mayor of Manchester and Joseph Heron was appointed the first town clerk, a post he would hold for over forty years.[96]  
  On 11 December 1840, the Manchester Poor Law Union was formally declared and took responsibility for the administration and funding of the Poor Law in the area.[97]  
  Other areas, which had been under the control of Lancashire County Council, were added to the city between 1890 and 1933:  
  1909: Levenshulme Urban District and the remaining area of Gorton Urban District.  
  In addition to these areas, in 1931 the Cheshire civil parishes of Baguley, Northenden and Northen Etchells were also added to the City of Manchester.[95]  
  In one of its most noted acts, Manchester City Council carried a resolution in 1980 to create the UK's first Nuclear Free Zone[99][100] The Peace Gardens were later constructed on a small piece of land in Lincoln Square.  
  Before 1974 the area of Greater Manchester was split between Cheshire and Lancashire with numerous parts being independent county boroughs. The area was informally known as "SELNEC", for "South East Lancashire North East Cheshire". Also, small parts of the West Riding of Yorkshire (around Saddleworth) and Derbyshire were covered.  
  SELNEC had been proposed by the Redcliffe-Maud Report of 1969 as a "metropolitan area". This had roughly the same northern boundary as today's Greater Manchester but covered much more territory in north-east Cheshire – including Macclesfield and Warrington. It also covered Glossop in Derbyshire.  
  In 1969 a SELNEC Passenger Transport Authority was set up, which covered an area smaller than the proposed SELNEC, but different from the eventual Greater Manchester.  
  Although the Redcliffe-Maud report was rejected by the Conservative Party government after it won the 1970 general election, it was committed to local government reform and accepted the need for a county based on Manchester. Its original proposal was much smaller than the Redcliffe-Maud Report's SELNEC, but further fringe areas such as Wilmslow, Warrington and Glossop were trimmed from the edges and included instead in the shire counties. The metropolitan county of Greater Manchester was eventually established in 1974.  
  Kidd, Alan (2006). Manchester: A History. Lancaster: Carnegie Publishing. ISBN 1-85936-128-5.  
  Frangopulo, Nicholas (1977). Tradition in Action. The historical evolution of the Greater Manchester County. Wakefield: EP Publishing. ISBN 0-7158-1203-3.  
  ^ Punter, John (2009). Urban Design and the British Urban Renaissance. p. 59. ISBN 978-0-203-86920-8.  
  ^ a b The Cambridge Dictionary of English Place-Names Based on the Collections of the English Place-Name Society, ed. by Victor Watts (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004), under MANCHESTER.  
  ^ Burnham, Barry C; Wacher, John (1990). The Small Towns of Roman Britain. London: B T Batsford. ISBN 0-7134-6175-6.  
  ^ Norman Redhead (20 April 2008). "A guide to Mamucium". BBC. Retrieved on 20 July 2008.  
  ^ Frangopulo, N. (ed.) (1962) Rich Inheritance. Manchester: Education Committee; pp. 109–111  
  ^ Durston, Christopher (2001) Cromwell's Major-Generals. Worsley and his descendants lived at Platt Hall, Rusholme (now a museum) until 1906.  
  ^ Established as a silk mill in 1784 by Samuel Greg at Styal, Cheshire. Pevsner, Nikolaus & Hubbard, Edward (1971) Cheshire. Harmondsworth: Penguin; p. 347.  
  ^ Bett, W. H. & Gillham, J. C. (1976) The Tramways of South-east Lancashire. Hanwell, London: Light Railway Transport League ISBN 0-900433-62-0; pp. 5–6  
  ^ Parkinson-Bailey, John J. (2000). Manchester: an architectural history. Manchester University Press. ISBN 9780719056062.  
  ^ a b c "Copy of the Charter". Manchester Times. 27 October 1838. p. 2. Retrieved 3 September 2022. ...a Charter of Incorporation for the district comprised within the boundaries of the townships of Manchester, Chorlton-upon-Medlock, Hulme, Ardwick, Beswick, and Cheetham, in the said county palatine of Lancaster, which said townships (together with the townships of Newton, Harpurhey, and Bradford) comprise the boundaries of the Parliamentary Borough of Manchester... Witness ourself at our Palace at Westminster, this twenty-third day of October, in the second year of our reign.  
  ^ "Timeline". Manchester Cathedral. Manchester Cathedral Online. 2008. Archived from the original on 16 April 2016. Retrieved 5 May 2009.  
  ^ Ottewell, David (12 February 2004). "More gay couples want children". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Retrieved 20 May 2007.  
  Cooper, Glynis (2003). Hidden Manchester. Breedon Books Publishing. ISBN 1-85983-401-9.  
  Gregory, Richard, ed. (2007). Roman Manchester: The University of Manchester's Excavations within the Vicus 2001–5. Oxford: Oxbow Books. ISBN 978-1-84217-271-1.  
  Hylton, Stuart (2003). A History of Manchester. Chichester: Phillimore and co. Ltd. ISBN 1-86077-240-4.  
  Kidd, Alan (1996). Manchester. Keele: Keele University Press. ISBN 1-85331-028-X.  
  Mason, David J.P. (2001). Roman Chester: City of the Eagles. Stroud: Tempus Publishing Ltd. ISBN 0-7524-1922-6.  
  Mosley, Stephen. The chimney of the world: a history of smoke pollution in Victorian and Edwardian Manchester (Routledge, 2013)  
  Nevell, Mike (1992). Tameside Before 1066. Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council. ISBN 1-871324-07-6.  
  Nevell, Mike (2008). Manchester: The Hidden History. The History Press. ISBN 978-0-7524-4704-9.  
  Newman, Caron (2006). "Medieval Period Resource Assessment". Archaeology North West. 8: 115–144. ISSN 0962-4201.  
  Philpott, Robert A. (2006). "The Romano-British Period Resource Assessment". Archaeology North West. 8: 59–90. ISSN 0962-4201.  
  Reid, Robert (1989). The Peterloo Massacre. William Heinemann Ltd. ISBN 0-434-62901-4.  
  Shotter, David (2004) [1993]. Romans and Britons in North-West England. Lancaster: Centre for North-West Regional Studies. ISBN 1-86220-152-8.  
  Walker, John, ed. (1989). Castleshaw: The Archaeology of a Roman Fortlet. Greater Manchester Archaeological Unit. ISBN 0-946126-08-9.  
  Frederick Dolman (1895), "Manchester", Municipalities at Work: the Municipal Policy of Six Great Towns and its Influence on their Social Welfare, London: Methuen & Co., OCLC 8429493  
  Shercliff, W. H. (1977) Manchester: a Short History of its Development  
  Haslam, Dave (1999). Manchester, England; the Story of the Pop Cult City. London: Fourth Estate. ISBN 1-84115-146-7.  
  Press ESC to close  
  Soccer History of Manchester City FC  
  Manchester City F.C., famously known as The Citizens, is a professional soccer team that competes in the English Premier League. They are based in the City of Manchester.  
  Founded in 1880, Manchester City has grown into a dominant club within the last decade. They play their home game at the City of Manchester Stadium (Etihad Stadium). The stadium can accommodate 55,017 soccer fans. Manchester City trophy cabinet consists of 6 English league titles, 6 FA Cups, 7 EFL Cups, 1 European Cup Winner’s Cup, and 6 FA Community Shields.  
  The arrival of Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Sheikh Mansour) has transformed Manchester City into one of the World’s finest soccer team. The history of the club is a must-read for all soccer fans. Without wasting time, let us dive right into the formation of the Manchester club.  
  The Formation Of Manchester City  
  Manchester City was formed in 1880 by members of St. Marks Church. The objective behind the setting up of the team was to stop local gang violence and alcohol problems. Everyone was allowed to join the club.  
  The club’s first match was a 2-1 loss to a church team from Macclesfield. Their first win came against Stalybridge Clarence in March 1881. Their early beginnings as St. Marks slowly but surely evolved, with the club being renamed Ardwick A.F.C. in 1887. In 1892, the Second Division of the English Football League was formed, and Ardwick A.F.C was a founding member.  
  Early Years And First Trophies Of The Citizens  
  In 1894, more changes came upon – the club was renamed Manchester City Football Club to represent Manchester’s entire City. It was also the year in which the squad started wearing their sky blue home jersey.  
  The Sky Blues enjoyed early success, promoting to the top tier in 1899 after winning the Second Division. The team also developed their first club crest and emblazoned it with the now-famous nickname – The Citizens.  
  In 1904, they became the first club from the City of Manchester to win a major trophy by lifting the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 victory over Bolton Wanderers. However, their early success was soon put on the back burner due to financial corruption allegations in 1904 – leading to the suspension of seventeen players, including club captain Billy Meredith.  
  Some years later, a fire outbreak at City’s Hyde Road stadium prompted the club to move to their new Maine Road stadium on Moss Side in 1923. It was the beginning of a slow period of relative obscurity for the club, with their next significant moment not arriving until 1934.  
  During the 1930s, the club reached two F.A. Cup Finals. In 1933, Manchester City lost to Everton in the finals. The Citizens were finalist again in 1934, and they defeated Portsmouth by 2-1 to lift the F.A. Cup again. During the winning cup run, Manchester City set a new record for the highest attendance in English soccer, as 84,569 fans watched the club’s match against Stoke City at Maine Road.  
  First League Title Of Manchester City  
  In 1937, Manchester City won the First Division league title for the first time in their history. However, the club suffered relegation next season. They were unable to defend their title despite scoring the highest number of goals during that campaign.  
  It took The Citizens a decade to achieve promotion back to the English First Divison. They gained automatic promotion after winning Division Two. The club would once again reach two consecutive F.A. Cup Finals. In the first final in 1955, City lost to Newcastle United. They eventually won the 1956 finals by a 3-1 win against Birmingham.  
  Second League Title And First European Trophy  
  Manchester City suffered relegation again in 1963. Consequently, there was a massive slump in match attendances. The future of The Citizens looked bleaker and bleaker. However, the appointment of the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison resulted in instant success. During their first season, the duo helped the team top the Second Division and won promotion back to the First Division.  
  The arrival of several important players in 1968 turned the club into title contenders. Mercer and Allison delivered Manchester City their second League title that season. The club won the title in the last game of the season by beating Newcastle United 4-3. Manchester City neighbours Manchester United finished second.  
  More success followed for The Citizens as they won the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 win over Leicester City in 1969. In 1970, Manchester City completed a brilliant run in the European Cup Winners’ Cup by defeating Górnik Zabrze 2-1 to win their first-ever European trophy. In the same season, The Citizens also won the League Cup, thus becoming the second English side to accomplish a domestic and European Cup double.  
  Relegation To The Third Division  
  The 1970s saw The Citizens challenge for more honours, with a win in the league cup coming in 1976, courtesy of a 2-1 victory over Newcastle United. However, this would mark the end of a successful era for the club and the beginning of the worst decline in Manchester City’s history.  
  Despite spending big to sign new players, the performance of the team declined drastically. The 1980s and 1990s saw them swing between the First and Second Division, with the club changing coaches seven times in the 1980s alone. Yet, the club’s darkest period came in 1998, when Manchester City was relegated to the English Football League’s Third Division.  
  Return To The Premier League  
  Following their relegation, the club underwent massive restructuring and introduced greater fiscal control in a bid to return to the top tier. The strategy paid off as City won back-to-back promotions to return to the Premier League in 2000.  
  However, their return to the top flight wasn’t a memorable one, as the club was relegated again. Kevin Keegan, who joined City at the end of that season, led the team to an immediate promotion to the Premier League, as they were crown champions of Division One in his first entire season at the club.  
  City Of Manchester Stadium  
  In 2003, Manchester City bid farewell to the Main Road Stadium and moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. After playing for 80 years at the Maine Road, The Citizens moved to their new impressive 48,000 capacity stadium. It marked the beginning of a new era and the return to the prominence of the club.  
  After mid-table finishes under Stuart Pearce’s management, City finally appointed a man with a proven pedigree. Sven Goran Eriksson joined the club in 2007; however, after less than a year at the club’s helm, the former England National Team manager was sacked and replaced by Mark Hughes.  
  Abu Dhabi United Group  
  In August 2008, Manchester was acquired by the Abu Dhabi United Group, a company owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Former owner, Thaksin Shinawatra, had no option than to sell the club after his political engagements saw his asset frozen.  
  Sheikh Mansour, arguably the richest man in the Middle East, provided the club with an influx of funds never seen before in English soccer. The club wasted little time to break the English transfer record to sign Brazil international player Robinho from Real Madrid. Players like Vincent Company, Gareth Barry, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, and Joleon Lescott joined the club in a bid to win silverwares.  
  Roberto Mancini And The Citizens  
  Despite having many star players at his disposal, Mark Hughes could not qualify The Citizens for the Champions League. By the end of the season, he was replaced by Roberto Mancini.  
  Capturing a title-winning coach with a high reputation in the game meant that City could attract major talents. It led the club to an unprecedented spending spree in the transfer market. Star players like Carlos Tevez, Yaya Toure, David Silva and Sergio Aguero were all signed during Mancini’s era.  
  The long wait for silverware ended in 2011 when City lifted the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 win over Stoke City. In the same season, the club qualified for the Champions League for the first time and changed their home stadium’s name to the Etihad Stadium in line with their new ownership and sponsorship.  
  The Historic Title Win  
  In the 2011/12 season, Manchester City finally ended their title drought by winning the Premier League in the most dramatic fashion. In one of the closest and contested title race ever, Manchester City and neighbours Manchester United went into the last game of the season on equal points.  
  A win against Queens Park Rangers (Q.P.R.) would guarantee an end to the 44-year wait for the League title, as The Citizens commanded a better goal difference.  
  City started the game poorly and was losing 1-0 to Q.P.R. It looked like The Citizens have thrown the title away as rivals Manchester United won their match at Sunderland.  
  However, Edin Dzeko scored in stoppage time to give the club a lifeline and keep their dream alive. With seconds to the game’s final whistle, an individual brilliance from Sergio Aguero saw the Argentinean dribble past the Q.P.R. defenders in the box to slam home the winner in the 93rd minute and finally deliver the club and its fans.  
  Domestic Success Under Manuel Pellegrini  
  Following the title win, Mancini was unable to get the same level of consistency out of his players in the League and Cup competitions and was eventually shown the door. However, the domestic success continued under the arrival of Manuel Pellegrini.  
  The Chilean took over from Mancini in 2013 and promptly built a City side that was very impressive. They won the league again in 2013/14 as Liverpool FC threw the title away with the iconic Steven Gerrard’ slip’ moment against Chelsea.  
  Pellegrini also won a Capital One Cup and two League Cups during his reign. The Chilean managed to sign the young Kevin De Bruyne and Raheem Sterling, who would become star players.  
  Pep Guardiola Era  
  In 2016, Josep “Pep” Guardiola was appointed as the manager of Manchester City. Notably known for his successful spells at Barcelona and Bayern Munich, the Spanish tactician was brought in to instil the club’s domestic success into the European front.  
  While Guardiola did not win any silverware in his first season, he did add several players to the squad in what was underlined as a transitory phase under his leadership.  
  Eventually, in his second spell at the club, Pep’s side dominated the Premier League in an unprecedented fashion. Manchester City won the title with a record-breaking 100 points. The team also broke several records in the process.  
  The Citizens holds the record for most wins in a season (32), which they share with Liverpool. Another record that Manchester City shares with Liverpool are the most consecutive win in the EPL (18). Guardiola men hold the record for the most goals scored in a season (106), and the most away wins (16).  
  In the same season, The Citizens defeated Arsenal F.C. by 3-0 to win the League Cup. In Europe, the team’s progress was halted by local rivals, Liverpool F.C. The Merseyside team, managed by Jurgen Klopp, defeated The Citizens by an astonishing 5-1 over the two legs of the quarter-finals of the Champions League.  
  The intensity of the rivalry between Manchester City and Liverpool was reaching its peak in England. However, as modern soccer fans would remember, the rivalry between Pep Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp dated back to when both coaches challenged each other while managing Bayern Munich and Dortmund, respectively Bundesliga.  
  With the financial backing of the club’s owner, Guardiola was very active in the transfer market and splashed out to bring more star players to the club in a bid to impose his dominance in England and achieve success on the European stage.  
  In his third campaign, City continued to dominate on the domestic front by winning another Premier League title. However, this time, the club had to fight tooth and claw to retain the title against a resurgent Liverpool F.C. The Citizens needed a victory in the last game of the campaign to guarantee the title remained at the Etihad Stadium.  
  Despite trailing by 1-0, City fought back to win the game by 4-1 against Brighton and winning the league title by the smallest margin. More success was achieved during the 2018/19 campaign, as City defeated Chelsea on penalty shootouts in the League Cup final. They also won the F.A. Cup against Watford by a whopping 6-0.  
  In the Champions League, City’s progress was again halted by an English side in the quarter-final. This time, Tottenham won over two legs via the away goal rule, with the aggregate score being 4-4.  
  In the 2019/20 campaign, Pep Guardiola dominance in the English top-flight was put to an end by none other than Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool F.C., hence ruining City’s chance of winning three consecutive Premier League titles.  
  In the Champions League, the club managed to reach the quarter-final for a third consecutive campaign but again felt short. Lyon won the contest by an aggregate score of 3-1 to end Guardiola’s chance of winning his first European trophy with the Citizens.  
  The only consolation of the season came in the League Cup. City won the final over Aston Villa by 2-1, making it their third consecutive League Cup trophy.  
  UEFA Financial Fair Play Rule And The Present  
  Since the takeover of Manchester City by the Abu Dhabi United Group, The Citizens has demonstrated unprecedented spending power in the transfer market, raising regulatory institutions and fans’ eyebrows across the World.  
  Consequently, in 2020, the club was fined 30 million Euros by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (C.A.S.) and banned for two years from all UEFA competitions. The club was alleged to have breached the Financial Fair Play Regulations while failing to provide adequate evidence to the UEFA Financial Control Body.  
  However, Manchester City appealed for the ruling, and the C.A.S duly overturned it. Consequently, the ban from UEFA competitions was lifted. Nevertheless, C.A.S. found that the club failed to cooperate appropriately during the investigation; hence, the fine was reduced to 10 million Euros.  
  In the same year, Guardiola signed a two-year contract extension to stay until 2023 and maintain his club’s commitment. Despite being one of the most successful managers at Manchester City, there is growing pressure for Guardiola to deliver on the European stage.  
  The last decade has seen The Citizen become a dominant force in England and Europe. It is mainly thanks to the investment of the club owners. However, it’s not just wealth that’s taken Manchester City to the top of soccer; many clubs have historically splashed out with no resulting success. It’s a strategic approach to recruiting top players, developing the youth system, and signing astute managers/coaches who have turned them into a behemoth. They will aim at the much desired UEFA Champions League trophy next.  
  Members of St. Mark's Church of England, West Gorton, Manchester, founded the football club that would become known as Manchester City for largely humanitarian purposes. Two church wardens sought to curb local gang violence and alcoholism by instituting new activities for local men, whilst high unemployment plagued East Manchester, specifically Gorton. All men were welcome to join, regardless of religion.  
  A church cricket club had been formed in 1875, but no equivalent for the winter months existed.[2] To rectify this, and as part of Rector Arthur Connell's general push to intervene in social ills, church wardens William Beastow and Thomas Goodbehere, who held senior positions at the Union Iron Works,[3] started a church football team called St Mark's (West Gorton), sometimes written as West Gorton (St Mark's), in the winter of 1880.[4]  
  The team's first recorded match occurred on 13 November 1880, against a church team from Macclesfield. St. Marks lost the match 2–1, and only won one match during their inaugural 1880–81 season, with a victory over Stalybridge Clarence in March 1881.[5]  
  City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division. They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904, beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup; City narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the League but City became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour.[6] In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith, who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United.[7] A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side.[8]  
  In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933, before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934.[9] During the 1934 cup run, Manchester City broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth round FA Cup tie against Stoke City in 1934—a record which still stands to this day.[10] The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division.[11] Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United, and won the second. The 1956 final, in which Manchester City beat Birmingham City 3–1, is one of the most famous finals of all-time, and is remembered for City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck.[12]  
  After relegation to the Second Division in 1963, the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965.[13] In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell.[14] Two seasons later, in 1967–68, Manchester City claimed the League Championship for the second time, clinching the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 win at Newcastle United and beating their close neighbours Manchester United into second place.[15] Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969, before achieving European success by winning the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1970, beating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in Vienna.[16] City also won the League Cup that season, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season.  
  The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup.[17] One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals.[18][19] The final trophy of the club's most successful period was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final.  
  A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley.[20] A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond, City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur. The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 and finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of Peter Reid.[21] However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992, but after finishing ninth in its first season they endured three seasons of struggle before being relegated in 1996. After two seasons in Division One, City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third league tier, after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany.  
  After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline.[22] City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in a play-off against Gillingham. A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan arrived as the new manager in the close season, bringing an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 Division One championship, breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a season in the process.[23] The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road, and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a run of 13 years without a derby win.[24] City also qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years. In the 2003 close season the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first manager from overseas when appointed in 2007.[25] After a bright start performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked in June 2008.[26] Eriksson was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later on 4 June 2008.[27]  
  By 2008, the club was in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club a year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen.[28] Then, in August 2008, the club was purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group. The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million.[29] Performances were not a huge improvement on the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth, although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup. During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry, Roque Santa Cruz, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, Carlos Tevez and Joleon Lescott.[30] In December 2009, Mark Hughes—who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board—was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini.[31] City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League, narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League, and competed in the UEFA Europa League in season 2010–11.  
  Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. City reached the 2011 FA Cup Final, their first major final in over thirty years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-final,[32] the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. They defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup, the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. In the same week, the club qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1968 with a 1–0 Premier League win over Tottenham Hotspur.[33] On the last day of the 2010–11 season, City passed Arsenal for third place in the Premier League, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage. Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season, with the club beginning the following season in commanding form, including beating Tottenham 5–1 at White Hart Lane and humbling Manchester United by a 6–1 scoreline in United's own stadium. Although the strong form waned half-way through the season, and City at one point fell eight points behind their bitter rivals with only six games left to play, an unprecedented slump by the previous champions allowed the blue side of Manchester to draw back level with two games to go, setting up a thrilling finale to the season with both teams going into the last day equal on points. Despite City only needing a home win against a team in the relegation zone, they still managed to fall a goal behind by the end of normal time, leading some of United's players to finish their game celebrating in the belief that they had won the league. Two goals in injury time—including one scored almost five minutes after normal time had elapsed—resulted in an almost-literal last-minute title victory, City's first in 44 years, and became only the fifth team to win the Premier League since its creation in 1992. In the aftermath that followed, the event was described by media sources from the UK and around the world as the greatest moment in Premier League history.[34][35]  
  After an end to the season which many believed would only spur City on, however, the following season failed to capitalise on any of the gains made in the first two full seasons of Mancini's reign. The transfer window saw virtually no players join the club until the last day of the season, when a last-minute burst of activity saw four different players all join in the space of around 10 hours. The free-flowing football of the previous season was suddenly rare to behold, and while City rarely seemed likely to drop below second in the table, they posed little title challenge all season. In the UEFA Champions League, the club was eliminated at the group stage for a second successive season, in a result which seemed to confirm Mancini's reputation as far better at managing in domestic games than European, while a second FA Cup final in three seasons ended in a 1–0 defeat to relegated Wigan Athletic.[36] The loss resulted in Mancini's dismissal, ostensibly as he had failed to reach his targets for the season[37] but with many in the press suggesting a break-down of relations between Mancini and his players[38] but also between the Italian and his board-level superiors,[39] while a refusal to promote young players was also cited.[40] In his place was appointed the Chilean Manuel Pellegrini,[41] who boasted a far more impressive Champions League record but less of a reputation for trophy-winning.  
  In Pellegrini's first season, City won the League Cup and regained the Premier League title on the last matchday of the season.[42][43] However, the team's league form was less impressive in the next couple of years: although they finished as runners-up in 2014–15, the 2015–16 campaign saw City end up fourth on goal difference, their lowest position since 2010. On the other hand, Pellegrini delivered another League Cup win and, more importantly, he guided City to the Champions League semi-finals, which they narrowly lost to future champions Real Madrid. This was the club's highest-ever finish in the Champions League, but Pellegrini's reign was nonetheless ended in anticipation of City's dream manager.[44]  
  The following season, Guardiola guided the club to retain their Premier League and League Cup titles, the first time in history that City had completed any successful title defence. The team then went on to win the FA Cup final and complete an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles.[49]  
  In 2020, UEFA banned Manchester City from European competitions for two seasons for alleged breaches of the UEFA Financial Fair Play Regulations; the club appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, who overturned the ban within months, finding that some allegations were above the five-years-old limit for such UEFA investigations, while the other allegations were unproven. The CAS also reduced UEFA's fine from €30 to €10 million.[50][51]  
  In the COVID-19 affected 2020–21 Premier League season, Manchester City regained their title from Liverpool, becoming champions for the third time in four years.[52] They ended the season twelve points ahead of second-placed Manchester United, winning the title with three games to spare.[53] They also won the League Cup for a record-equalling fourth consecutive and eighth time in total, beating Tottenham 1–0 in the final.[54] City's league victory was the tenth league and cup title of Guardiola's five-year tenure, making him the most successful manager in the club's history.[55] The season was highlighted by City's European breakthrough, with the club reaching their first-ever Champions League final,[56] where they met Chelsea, making it the third all-English final in the competition's history. However, the Blues were defeated 1–0 at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto, courtesy of a Kai Havertz goal. Still, City's breakthrough marked their most successful European campaign to date.[57]  
  The Blues produced another campaign to remember in 2021–22, retaining their league title, following another close title race with Liverpool and making it four titles in five seasons. In another case of "typical City", needing four points from their last two fixtures, the Blues had fallen behind by two goals in both games, only to recover to a 2–2 draw against West Ham away, and to a 3–2 win at home to Aston Villa in the season finale. These last three goals were all scored in a five-minute blitz between the 76th and 81st minutes, in moments that would sit alongside the famous victories in the 1999 play-off final against Gillingham and the 2011–12 Premier League finale against QPR.[58] City also reached the Champions League semi-finals again that season (and for only the third time in their history), but were beaten there by Real Madrid 6–5 on aggregate a.e.t. over two closely fought and very dramatic games.[59]  
  As of the end of the 2021–22 season, Manchester City had won four league titles in five seasons under Guardiola's reign, retaining them on two occasions. They had twice won the title by a single point from Liverpool, in the process developing a fierce new rivalry, that also translated to managers Guardiola and Jürgen Klopp, as well as the fans of the respective clubs. Guardiola had also guided City to their first ever Champions League final, and a further semi-finals, which was lost in dramatic circumstances to Real Madrid. The 2020–21 and 2021–22 seasons were also notable as the end of City's record goalscorer Sergio Agüero's career at the club after 10 seasons and 260 goals. The Blues struggled to immediately recruit a replacement and so employed a false nine role extensively in accomplishing their objectives these seasons.  
  However, with the European success eluding the brilliant City squad, some pundits and fans like still questioned whether that side would go down in history as one of the greatest of all time. The 2022–23 season rendered all those talking points irrelevant, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and, most importantly, their maiden Champions League title, thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble. The road to the Champions League victory included convincing victories over the perennial favorites and European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate, and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City after their controversial 6–5 extra time victory at the same stage a year before.[60][61][62]  
  ^ James, Gary (2006). Manchester City : the complete record : every game, every scorer, every player and every attendance, memorable matches, complete history, pen pictures, manager profiles, appearance records. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1859835120. OCLC 156890195.  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 27–36  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 37–56  
  ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, pp. 13–22  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, pp. 410–420  
  ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 68  
  ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4. p. 177  
  ^ "Club Statement". Manchester City F.C. 13 May 2013. Archived from the original on 20 June 2016. Retrieved 7 October 2013.  
  United had been league champions in 1908 and 1911, as well as winning the FA Cup in 1909, but the interwar years were less successful as financial problems blighted the club, who spent the 1920s and 1930s bouncing between the First and Second Divisions. The club's Old Trafford stadium was severely damaged in a German air raid in March 1941 during the Second World War, and the club did not return there until the stadium's rebuilding was completed in 1949, until which time their home games were played at Maine Road, the stadium of Manchester City.  
  In October 1945, the impending resumption of football led to the appointment of Matt Busby as the club's manager; he demanded an unprecedented level of control over team selection, player transfers and training sessions.[1] Busby led the team to second-place league finishes in 1947, 1948 and 1949, and to FA Cup victory in 1948, the club's first major trophy for 37 years. In 1952, the club won the First Division, their first league title for 41 years.[2]  
  With an average age of 22, the media labelled the back-to-back title-winning side of 1956 and 1957 the "Busby Babes", a testament to Busby's faith in his youth players, who had gradually replaced the older players of the team that had enjoyed success in the late 1940s and early 1950s.[3] In 1956–57, Manchester United became the first English team to compete in the European Cup, despite objections from the Football League, who had denied Chelsea the same opportunity the previous season.[4] En route to the semi-final, which they lost to Real Madrid, the team recorded a 10–0 victory over Belgian champions Anderlecht, which remains the club's biggest victory on record.[5]  
  The following season, on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, the aircraft carrying the Manchester United players, officials and journalists crashed while attempting to take off after refuelling in Munich, Germany. The Munich air disaster of 6 February 1958 claimed 23 lives, including those of eight players – Geoff Bent, Roger Byrne, Eddie Colman, Duncan Edwards, Mark Jones, David Pegg, Tommy Taylor and Billy Whelan – and injured several more. Two other players were injured to such an extent that they never played again, and Busby was hospitalised for several months.[6][7]  
  Reserve team manager Jimmy Murphy took over as manager while Busby recovered from his injuries and the club's makeshift side reached the FA Cup Final, which they lost to Bolton Wanderers. In recognition of the team's tragedy, UEFA invited the club to compete in the 1958–59 European Cup alongside eventual League champions Wolverhampton Wanderers. Despite approval from the FA, the Football League determined that the club should not enter the competition, since they had not qualified.[8][9] In the two years that followed the tragedy, Busby built a new team around Munich survivors like Bobby Charlton, Harry Gregg and Bill Foulkes by making signings including Albert Quixall, Noel Cantwell and Maurice Setters.  
  Busby rebuilt the team through the 1960s by signing players such as Denis Law and Pat Crerand, who combined with the next generation of youth players – including George Best – to win the FA Cup in 1963, the club's first major trophy since the Munich crash. The following season, they finished second in the league, then won the title in 1965 and 1967. In 1968, Manchester United became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final,[10] with a team that contained three European Footballers of the Year: Charlton, Law and Best.[11] Busby resigned as manager in 1969 and was replaced by the reserve team coach, former Manchester United player Wilf McGuinness.[12]  
  Man Utd became known as the Red Devils because when they were named Newton Heath, they were called the Heathens.  
  In February 1945, with the Second World War in its final few months, Matt Busby met Manchester United president James W. Gibson in Manchester, where he was offered a three-year contract to become the club's manager. At Busby's insistence, this was lengthened to five years; he was appointed manager aged only 36,[13] having just finished a playing career that had seen him turn out for Manchester City and Liverpool as well as the Scotland national side. Busby's appointment was notable for his insistence that he had the authority to appoint his own staff and overall control of all matters related to the playing of the game, responsibilities usually held by club directors or chairmen. Busby did not assume managerial command until October 1945, after the start of the season, and his first act was to appoint former West Bromwich Albion and Wales wing half Jimmy Murphy as coach of the reserve team.[14]  
  League football resumed for the 1946–47 season and United finished second with a side featuring the likes of Jack Rowley, Charlie Mitten and John Aston. The club captain was now Johnny Carey, an Irishman whose normal position was right-back but who, during his United career, played in every position except on the right wing. They finished second again in both of the next two seasons, though they did deliver the FA Cup in 1948, beating Blackpool 4–2 to claim their first major trophy for 37 years. United's stadium, Old Trafford, had been largely destroyed by German bombs in the Second World War, so they played their home fixtures at Manchester City's ground Maine Road between 1945 and 1949, when they returned to a rebuilt Old Trafford.[15]  
  After a 41-year wait, league title success finally came in 1952, with United beating second-placed Arsenal 6–1 on the final day of the season to finish four points ahead of both Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur. However, the side captained by Carey was beginning to show its age and a new set of players had to be found. Busby had already made an important signing the previous year by paying Birmingham City £25,000 for winger Johnny Berry; he had also signed young goalkeeper Ray Wood from Darlington in 1949, while a young Roger Byrne had excelled on the left wing in the title run-in, but many other positions were in need of changes.  
  During the Second World War, football was effectively frozen, and James Gibson set about establishing the Manchester United Junior Athletic Club (MUJAC) in 1938 with the aim of developing the ability of some of the country's most talented young players; it became a "hotbed of young talent that would sustain the club for years to come".[16] When Busby took over in 1945, he overhauled the team; seven players were transfer-listed, several changed positions and he signed winger Jimmy Delaney from Celtic. These changes resulted in the club finishing the 1946–47 season as runners up in the First Division, and in 1948 the club won the FA Cup, beating Blackpool 4–2 in the final. At the start of the following season, Busby began selling some of the older players and replacing them with players from the Youth and Reserve teams. The term "Busby Babes" was coined in November 1951, after 18-year-old Jackie Blanchflower and 22-year-old Roger Byrne made their debuts against Liverpool at Anfield; Tom Jackson of the Manchester Evening News described them in a match report as "United's Babes".[17]  
  The 1952–53 season saw the retirement of Johnny Carey, yet it also saw the introduction of the Busby Babes as the championship team began to lose steam. David Pegg, Dennis Viollet, Duncan Edwards, and Bill Foulkes, aged between 16 and 21, all made their first appearances in the 1952–53 season. Many of the players at this time were a tribute to the scouting skills of chief scout Joe Armstrong (assigned the duty of finding talent in the North of England), Bob Bishop (Belfast), Billy Behan (Dublin) and Bob Harper, underpinned by United's innovative youth policy under Matt Busby. United finished eighth in 1954 and fifth in 1955 before winning the league by an 11-point margin in 1955–56 with Tommy Taylor and Dennis Viollet leading the line for a side which had an average age of only 22. Only two players in the 1956 team, Roger Byrne and Johnny Berry, had collected medals in both the 1952 and 1956 title winning campaigns. Against the Football League's wishes, they became England's first representatives in the European Cup.  
  One of the stars of the team was Duncan Edwards, who set the record as the youngest player ever to be capped for England when he played against Scotland at the age of 17 and 8 months. The record stood for more than 40 years before being broken in 1998 by Michael Owen, who would play for United more than a decade later. His legendary status is demonstrated by the fact that he placed sixth in a 1999 poll of Manchester United fans, asking them to name the top 50 United players of all time - despite his playing career lasting just five years and up to the age of 21.  
  The Championship was defended successfully in 1957, with Tommy Taylor scoring 22 goals, Liam Whelan getting 26 and a young Bobby Charlton grabbing 10 goals. United also beat rivals Manchester City to win the 1956 Charity Shield and reached the FA Cup Final that season, but played without their goalkeeper Ray Wood for much of the game, eventually losing 2–1 to Aston Villa.  
  United's first European match was a 2–0 win away to the Belgian champions Anderlecht. The return leg was played at Maine Road as Old Trafford did not have any floodlights, and United won 10–0. This is still their record victory in a European match.[18]  
  On 5 February 1958, United played Red Star Belgrade in Yugoslavia, in the second leg of the European Cup quarter finals. The match ended in a 3–3 draw, but as United had already won the home leg 2–1, they won the tie 5–4 on aggregate and reached the semi-finals for the second year in succession.  
  The team's chartered plane, an Airspeed Ambassador owned by British European Airways, left Belgrade on 6 February and stopped at Munich to refuel. Takeoff had to be aborted twice because of boost surging, a common problem in the "Elizabethan". The problem was caused by the fuel mixture being too rich, which caused the engines to over-accelerate: this problem was exacerbated by the altitude of the Munich airport.  
  The pilots were able to control the surging on the third takeoff attempt, but as they reached the V1 "decision speed" (after which it is unsafe to abort takeoff), the airspeed suddenly dropped. The aircraft left the runway, crashed through a fence and into a house. The left wing and the tail were ripped off, while the starboard side of the fuselage hit a fuel tank and exploded. Officially, the cause of the accident was build-up of slush on the runway, which caused the aircraft to lose speed, preventing it from achieving takeoff.  
  A total of 23 people died as a result of their injuries; among them were four other passengers and two of the crew, as were eight sportswriters including former Manchester City and England goalkeeper Frank Swift. Among the survivors were goalkeeper Harry Gregg, who had only just joined the club from Doncaster Rovers, full-back Bill Foulkes and forward Bobby Charlton.  
  Jackie Blanchflower and Johnny Berry were injured to such an extent that their playing careers were over, and Kenny Morgans was never the same player he had been before the crash. Matt Busby himself was in hospital for two months recovering from multiple injuries. Initially his chances of surviving were thought to be no better than 50-50.  
  While Busby recovered in hospital, his assistant Jimmy Murphy took temporary charge of team affairs (Murphy had not gone to Yugoslavia with the team, as he was managing the Welsh national side in a World Cup qualifier against Israel). United struggled in the League after Munich, winning only one of their last 14 matches and finishing in ninth place. However, they performed well in the FA Cup matches and made it to the final, but lost to Bolton 2–0. At the end of the season, UEFA offered The FA the opportunity to submit both United and the eventual champions Wolves for the 1958–59 European Cup, an unprecedented move, as a tribute to the victims, but the FA declined.  
  A period of rebuilding followed with several significant signings, including Albert Quixall, Maurice Setters, Denis Law, Pat Crerand, and Noel Cantwell between 1958 and 1962. Although they were sound long-term investments, the arrival of fresh blood failed to give the club an immediate leg-up in the league. Munich survivors Harry Gregg, Bill Foulkes and Bobby Charlton were all with the club for many years afterwards, while Ray Wood, Albert Scanlon and Kenny Morgans had all been transferred by 1961 and Dennis Viollet was sold to Stoke City in 1962.  
  The team's form was inconsistent, but despite a poor 19th place in the 1962–63 season, United managed to beat Leicester City 3–1 at Wembley to win the FA Cup.  
  After the crash, Busby's Babes seemed inappropriate so a new name was sought. English rugby club Salford had toured France in the 1930s wearing red shirts and became known as "The Red Devils". Busby liked the sound of it, so he declared Manchester United should also be known as "The Red Devils" and soon the club began incorporating the devil logo into match programmes and scarves.[19] In 1970, the club badge was redesigned, but now with a devil in the centre holding a pitchfork.  
  September 1963 saw the debut of 17-year-old forward George Best, completing the "holy trinity" of Charlton, Law and Best that would help United to their successes of the 1960s. In 1963–64 Law scored 46 goals in all competitions. United finished second that season, then won the League in 1964–65 by goal average over a newly promoted Leeds United, who would go on to be one of the dominant sides in English football over the next decade. That season saw United go on a run of 13 wins in 15 games from September–December 1964. The rebuilding was complete: Bobby Charlton and Bill Foulkes were the only Munich survivors in that team, although Harry Gregg was still on the club's payroll despite a serious shoulder injuries, not leaving until the 1966–67 season.[20]  
  That season was significant in other ways, too, as England were hosting the 1966 World Cup and Old Trafford was among the stadia to be upgraded at the government's expense, with the North Stand being rebuilt into a cantilevered structure. United's players Bobby Charlton and Nobby Stiles played for England in the Final, beating West Germany 4–2. Winger John Connelly was also in England's World Cup squad but was not selected in the team for the final.  
  United won another league title in 1966–67, going unbeaten in their last 20 games and making sure of top spot by winning 6–1 over West Ham, qualifying them for the European Cup the next season and laying the groundwork for the climactic triumph of that era. They were knocked out of the League Cup at the Second Round stage by Blackpool, who won the Bloomfield Road tie 5–1.[21]  
  The run to the European Cup began easily enough, and the Reds cruised past the Maltese team Hibernians for a 4–0 win on aggregate. A tough, physical series against Sarajevo was next, followed by Górnik Zabrze from Poland. United won 2–1 on aggregate and then came the semi-final - two matches against the mighty Real Madrid. Real played a defensive game in the first leg at Old Trafford, stifling the attacking magic of the Reds. United managed a 1–0 victory, but it was a very small advantage to take into the Bernabéu.  
  Denis Law was suffering from a knee injury, so Busby decided instead to call up the 36-year-old defender Bill Foulkes, who now played most of his games in the centre of defence rather that on the right. The game started badly for United as Real Madrid ran circles around them, leading 3–1 at half-time, 3–2 on aggregate. United came back strongly after the break and pounded the Real defence to no avail for half an hour until David Sadler levelled the aggregate score. Then Bill Foulkes played the hero as he buried a pass from George Best into the goal. It was the only goal he ever scored in European competition and the last of only nine he would score in nearly 700 appearances for the club.  
  United were through to the final and faced Benfica at Wembley. In many ways it was an emotional day, Matt Busby's journey finally coming full circle after the tragically aborted promise of the Busby Babes a decade earlier. It was also a testament to Busby's skill in judging talent, as the club had only paid transfer fees for two of that day's players.  
  Bobby Charlton opened the scoring for United, then Jaime Graça equalised. Benfica piled on the pressure in the dying minutes and it took a brilliant save from Alex Stepney to deny Eusébio the winning goal. United managed to hold out until extra time, then George Best finally broke free of the stifling marking of the Benfica defence and scored. Benfica were reeling and Brian Kidd, celebrating his 19th birthday, scored a header. Bobby Charlton finished off Benfica with a high shot for a 4–1 victory and United became the first English team to win the European Cup.[22]  
  As the European champions, Manchester United faced off against Estudiantes de La Plata, the South American champions, in the 1968 Intercontinental Cup. Estudiantes won the series after a 1–0 win in Buenos Aires's La Bombonera and a 1–1 draw at Old Trafford. This became the first, and so far only, time Manchester United failed to win a title contested at their home ground.[24] In the European Cup, United lost to Milan in the semi-finals, after a Law goal that clearly crossed the line was disallowed in the second leg at Old Trafford, leaving United 1–0 winners on the night but 1–2 losers on aggregate. The season ended with Busby moving on to become General Manager.[25] He had announced his intention to resign as team manager on 14 January 1969,[26] and trainer Wilf McGuinness agreed to take over control of the first team.[25]  
  By May 1969, the United squad was rather aged. Foulkes, whose appearances were now limited and who would retire the following season, was now 37. Shay Brennan and Bobby Charlton were now in their early thirties and Denis Law was just months short of his 30th birthday, although the squad did include some impressive younger players including 20-year-old forward Brian Kidd and new signing Willie Morgan, an acquisition from Burnley just after the European Cup victory. Alex Stepney, 26, was now United's regular goalkeeper, having been signed from Chelsea three years earlier to replace Harry Gregg.  
  Barnes, Justyn; Bostock, Adam; Butler, Cliff; Ferguson, Jim; Meek, David; Mitten, Andy; Pilger, Sam; Taylor, Frank OBE; Tyrrell, Tom (2001) [1998]. The Official Manchester United Illustrated Encyclopedia (3rd ed.). London: Manchester United Books. ISBN 0-233-99964-7.  
  White, Jim (2008). Manchester United: The Biography. London: Sphere. ISBN 978-1-84744-088-4.  
  ^ Gillatt, Peter (30 November 2009). Blackpool FC on This Day: History, Facts and Figures from Every Day of the Year. Pitch Publishing Ltd. ISBN 1-905411-50-2.  
  'I felt betrayed' - Six Manchester United players that turned on Erik ten Hag after leaving  
  Manchester United news as some players who left have gone on to criticise their former manager Erik ten Hag after waving goodbye to Old Trafford  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Erik ten Hag hasn't yet been at Manchester United for two years but in some ways it feels like a lifetime.  
  Dealing with a group of big egos that had caused issues for previous managers, it's no surprise that he failed to keep all of them in check. However, some more than others have showed that Ten Hag's style isn't for everyone.  
  This season alone with Jadon Sancho has shown just how the conflict can cause issues not just on a one-to-one basis but also within the wider camp. Sancho had to leave Old Trafford to try and get his career back on track, failing to see eye-to-eye with his manager.  
  Although the young attacker hasn't gone as far as to name Ten Hag since leaving, he was happy enough to call him out earlier this season. "Please don't believe everything you read! I will not allow people saying things that is (sic) completely untrue, I have conducted myself in training very well this week," he wrote online after being left out of the squad to face Arsenal in September.  
  "I believe there are other reasons for this matter that I won't go into, l've been a scapegoat for a long time which isn't fair! All I want to do is play football with a smile on my face and contribute to my team.  
  "I respect all decisions that are made by the coaching staff, I play with fantastic players and (am) grateful to do so which I know every week is a challenge. I will continue to fight for this badge no matter what!"  
  After leaving the club, though, there have been some pointed messages that perhaps seem to show just what Ten Hag wasn't offering him. "It's not only Edin [Terzic - Dortmund manager] whose trust I feel," he said. "Everyone at BVB knows what I can do on the pitch. They all trust me. I'm very grateful that they give me the opportunity to show what I can do every week. I hope it continues that way."  
  He also appeared to claim that a lack of meaningful relationships at United played a part. "I believe, personally, it is due to the fact I can reconnect with the fans," he said of why going back to Dortmund was a clear option. "Obviously, there is Edin and Sebastian [Kehl] (director of football). There is also obviously Marco [Reus] and a few other players, so I feel like it was the right decision.  
  "I think my teammates will make it easier for me. Me knowing a few of the guys in the dressing room, they will welcome me nicely." He added, "I'm just happy to be back playing football. When I'm playing football, I'm at my happiest. I'm just grateful to be back."  
  Sancho isn't the only high-profile player to not get on with Ten Hag either. The most obvious case is Cristiano Ronaldo.  
  Speaking about the state of United during a fiery interview with Piers Morgan during the 2022 World Cup, the now Al-Nassr forward said: "Some people don't want me here not only this year but last year too." Ten Hag joined in the 'this year' part of that statement, but the cryptic element of his unhappiness didn't last for long.  
  "I don't have respect for him [Ten Hag] because he doesn't show respect for me," he openly admitted. "If you don't have respect for me, I'm never gonna have respect for you." He added: "Manchester United tried to force me out. Not only the manager, but the other two or three guys who are around the club [at the senior executive level].  
  "I felt betrayed. I don't care, people should listen to the truth. Yes, I felt betrayed."  
  Ronaldo had previously praised the Dutchman. "I know he did a fantastic job for Ajax and that he's an experienced coach but we need to give him time," the club legend had said.  
  "Things need to change the way he wants. We are happy and excited, not only the players but the supporters as well. I wish him the best and let's believe that next year we're going to win trophies."  
  "Ten Hag is a very approachable guy but is very strict," he said of the boss. "He takes no one bending the rules. He will say it how it is and will punish people if they have done the wrong things."  
  However, upon joining the Toffees he added: "My talk with him was easy. I asked him plain and simple whether I was going to be in the squad or if he saw me playing a part. I felt the conversation did not go as well as I wanted and I made the decision to move."  
  "I didn't want the manager to come in and be able to see me in training," he explained. "I knew he'd probably want to keep me, so I tried to do it all before I left for the season. I told the hierarchy I need to go and play football, I don't want to be here playing second fiddle.  
  He added: "The conversation I had coming out of that Euros squad was ' you're coming back here to be the number one goalkeeper'. I got Covid, and come back, I should have still been the number one, but unfortunately, no one followed through with anything they told me.  
  "It was frustrating because I turned down so many good loans last summer for that reason and they wouldn't let me go. So, it was frustrating. To sit there and waste 12 months, it's criminal really at my age.  
  "I was fuming. But I worked hard off the pitch and on the training pitch to keep improving day in, day out. So I'm really excited to be here. I'm looking forward to the season with Forest."  
  Forward Andreas Pereira was in the same boat. "I didn't speak with Ten Hag," he told ESPN in March 2023. "I know him because I worked with him at PSV but I was determined in my head and maybe if I spoke with the manager again I would stay.  
  "In my head I was thinking 'I need to go, I need to feel confident and play' and that's what I did. At United I had a lot of memories; good memories, bad memories. It's been 10 years at the club. I arrived when I was 16 so, you know, a young boy. It was an amazing ride but I got to the stage where I thought maybe it was best not to stay.  
  "I wanted to feel more loved and I wanted to play every game. What Fulham offered me and what [manager] Marco [Silva] offered me, it was the perfect opportunity."  
  Ten Hag did leave many impressed that have gone as well. Fred and Tahith Chong both spoke well of Ten Hag after leaving Old Trafford. Eric Bailey was less enamoured.  
  “Cristiano Ronaldo returned, the legend coming back," he started when discussing the infamous split. "He was the best player in the world for me.  
  "Even when he returned, Cristiano contributed a lot to the club and a player like Cristiano deserves to feel important. It’s a shame he left in the circumstances he did.”  
  "A player always wants to play, many times one does not put oneself into the manager's decisions, who has to think about many more things. Many times the player does not know what the coach is thinking or why he makes the decisions he makes.  
  "United were not winning games. When a great team enters that situation everything becomes more difficult and day-to-day life is more complicated. Now it has picked up a little and hopefully at the end of the season the goal of reaching the Champions League will be achieved. When a player goes out on loan it is to look for minutes, gain continuity and try to gain confidence."  
  Ten Hag has clearly been unable to win over all those that he has managed so far, that's for sure, and the nature of some of the biggest moments with Sancho and Ronaldo have clouded his work. Those that have left largely praised his methods even if the reception was cold.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Sections  
  Jarrad Branthwaite on Manchester United radar ahead of potential summer move  
  Centre-back spent last season on loan at PSV and has broken into Everton’s starting line-up this term with series of impressive performances  
  England centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite is being looked at by Manchester United as a possible summer target in one of their priority areas to bolster for next season.  
  ‌Branthwaite, 21, was called up by Gareth Southgate for this week’s internationals after his breakthrough season in the Premier League after spending last season at PSV in Holland.  
  ‌While United have yet to push forward with summer plans, Branthwaite is highly regarded at Old Trafford as one of the most promising homegrown prospects at centre-back.  
  ‌There is uncertainty over that position as Raphael Varane has one full season left on his contract and interest from Saudi Arabia. As revealed by Telegraph Sport last month, a centre-back is an area United are looking at.  
  ‌They are also in the market for a striker to support Rasmus Hojlund and will look at right-backs. Casemiro’s future, and whether he stays at the club, will determine whether they look at central midfielder.  
  ‌Branthwaite is among the centre-backs likely to be considered at the end of the season, when transfer budgets tend to get decided as it is known whether United will be playing in the Champions League as they were this term.  
  ‌Everton’s own situation could determine Branthwaite’s future and his value on the transfer market. They are battling against relegation from the Premier League and Branthwaite will be one of their most valuable assets in the summer.  
  ‌It is expected to be a busy market for centre-backs in the summer with Marc Guehi at Crystal Palace also earning admirers in the Premier League. Guehi and Branthwaite are expected to both break through the £50 million barrier as homegrown talents who are in Southgate’s plans.  
  ‌Branthwaite did not play for England during the international break, with Southgate using Joe Gomez and Ezri Konsa.  
  ‌“He’s played consistently well,” said Southgate. “We watched him as a back-up centre-back at the Under-21 finals last year and if you would have said then he would play as consistently well at PL level as he has, I would have questioned that. That is a credit to him. He’s good with the ball, shows good composure and mentality and we don’t have many left-footers.”  
  Share this with  
  Lasse Abildgaard has claimed that he snubbed Manchester United before deciding to join ‘big club’ Ajax in the last summer transfer window.  
  The 17-year-old spent a week at Carrington last year on trial and has said in a new interview that it was him and his team who took the decision not to stay.  
  Abildgaard insists Ajax was the ‘best’ option for him and following a two-week trial with the Dutch club, they handed him a three-year deal in July 2023.  
  The Danish youth international, who plays as a winger, was added to Ajax’s U17s squad and is waiting to make his first-team debut.  
  ‘I went to trial training down there [at Manchester United] to see what it was like,’ Abildgaard told Tipsbladet.  
  ‘We ended up making the decision that it was the best for me [to join Ajax instead].’  
  Abildgaard is loving life at Ajax as he added: ‘It is of course great to be allowed to join such a club, and to be good enough for such a big club to believe in you.  
  ‘Every day you come in, there are expensive cars, you see the Ajax logo, there are [security] guards outside, there are a lot of training sessions.  
  ‘It’s just great to put on the Ajax training clothes every day. I heard about [Ajax’s] interest a long time ago.  
  ‘And then it was like just a process between the club and my family and my advisor about how it should go, and things like that.’  
  ‘Lies were told’: João Cancelo blasts Manchester City over his departure  
  Full-back says club ‘ungrateful’ after he helped win two titles  
  £60m signing on loan at Barcelona after spell at Bayern Munich  
  João Cancelo has accused Manchester City of being “ungrateful” and claimed “lies were told” about his exit from the club.  
  The Portugal full-back is on a season-long loan at Barcelona after a spell at Bayern Munich in the second half of last term. Cancelo had been a key part of manager Pep Guardiola’s squad until shortly before his unexpected, deadline-day departure for Germany in January 2023.  
  Stories later emerged suggesting Cancelo, who had fallen behind Rico Lewis and Nathan Aké in the pecking order, had been a disruptive influence in the dressing room.  
  The 29-year-old told the Portuguese sports newspaper A Bola: “Lies were told. I was never a bad companion for them and you can ask either Aké or Rico. I don’t have any superiority or inferiority complex towards them.  
  “I think Manchester City were a bit ungrateful to me when they said that because I was a very important player in the years I was there. I never failed in my commitment to the club, to the fans. I always gave everything.”  
  Cancelo, who joined City in a £60m move from Juventus in 2019, won back-to-back Premier League titles in 2021 and 2022. He felt his commitment to the club was clear for all to see when he played in a game at Arsenal on New Year’s Day 2022, with facial injuries visible after an attack in his home just hours earlier.  
  He said: “I remember a time when I was robbed and attacked and the next day I was playing at the Emirates against Arsenal. These are things you don’t forget. I left my wife and daughter alone at home, terrified. People will only remember this because Mr Guardiola has much more strength than me when he says something, and I prefer to keep to myself.”  
  List of Manchester City F.C. seasons  
  Manchester City Football Club is an English professional association football club based in Manchester, that currently plays in the Premier League. The following list covers the period from 1891 (when the club, then known as Ardwick, joined the Football Alliance) to the present day. It details the club's achievements in senior league and cup competitions, and the top scorers for each season. The club was renamed Manchester City F.C. in 1894, and moved to Maine Road in 1923. Since 2003, they have played at the City of Manchester Stadium (most commonly known as the Etihad Stadium). Manchester City's biggest rivals are Manchester United; they compete against each other in the Manchester derby. A more recent rivalry with Liverpool has overshadowed the derby in recent years due to both City and Liverpool directly competing for the titles against each other.  
  Manchester City were formed in 1880 as West Gorton (St. Marks).[1] At this time organised league football did not exist; ordinary matches (that today would be called friendly games) were arranged on a largely ad hoc basis and supplemented by the competitive games that cup competition required. No complete record of the club's matches prior to 1891 survives. In 1890, the club entered the FA Cup for the first time, but withdrew in the second qualifying round. The following season, they joined the Football Alliance and in 1892 were elected to the newly formed Football League Second Division. In 1894, the club restructured, changing its name to Manchester City in the process.  
  In 1970, League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup victories were both achieved in the same season, making Manchester City only the second English club (Leeds United were the first in 1968) to achieve a European cup double within the same year,[3] and the first English club to do so within the same season. The Blues were also the last team to win the English league championship with a team consisting entirely of players of English nationality (many of whom were also native Mancunians). They are, as of 2023, the only English club to win all major domestic honours in the same season (in 2018–19).[4] In 2023, Manchester City achieved their greatest success so far, winning the prestigious continental treble, which included the club's first-ever European Cup title.[5][6]  
  As of the end of the 2022–23 season, Manchester City have played 5,603 competitive matches.[7][8] In that time the club has spent 94 seasons in the top division of English football, 26 seasons in the second, and one season in the third.  
  No competitive football was played between 1915 and 1919 due to the First World War. During the war, the club played in the Lancashire section of the non-competitive War Leagues.  
  No competitive football was played between 1939 and 1946 due to the Second World War. During the war, the club played in the non-competitive War Leagues.  
  ^ a b Figures include goals in the domestic league, FA Cup, EFL Cup, FA Community Shield, European and international competitions, as well as other domestic/continental tournaments and play-offs/test matches.  
  ^ An administrative error meant the club did not enter the FA Cup in 1895.[9]  
  ^ The club withdrew from the FA Cup during the qualifying rounds both in 1890–91 and 1895–96. The reasons for withdrawal are unclear.  
  ^ The Subsidiary Tournament was a round-robin competition played following the completion of league fixtures.  
  ^ The 1939–40 English football season was abandoned in early September after only three matches had been played, and all results were later annulled due to the onset of the Second World War.  
  ^ Unplaced. 18 matches or more were required for a team to be placed.  
  ^ The FA Cup was contested in 1945–46 but the Football League did not resume until the following season.  
  ^ Manchester City became the first English men's side to win all four senior domestic competitions in a single season.  
  ^ Manchester City became only the second-ever English men's side to win the continental treble.  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  Baskcomb, Julian, ed. (1997). Manchester City F.C. Official Handbook 1997–98. Leicester: Polar.  
  Richard Rundle. "Manchester City". Football Club History Database. Retrieved 26 May 2007.  
  ^ "Complete playing record". Retrieved 24 March 2011. Excludes wartime matches and the abandoned 1939–40 season.  
  Manchester United Football Club is an English professional football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester. The club was founded as Newton Heath LYR F.C. in 1878 and turned professional in 1885, before joining the Football League in 1892. After a brush with bankruptcy in 1901, the club reformed as Manchester United in 1902. Manchester United currently play in the Premier League, the top tier of English football. They have not been out of the top tier since 1975, and they have never been lower than the second tier.[1] They have also been involved in European football ever since they became the first English club to enter the European Cup in 1956.[2]  
  This list encompasses the major honours won by Manchester United and records set by the club, their managers and their players. The player records section includes details of the club's leading goalscorers and those who have made most appearances in first-team competitions. It also records notable achievements by Manchester United players on the international stage, and the highest transfer fees paid and received by the club. The club's attendance records, both at Old Trafford, their home since 1910, and Maine Road, their temporary home from 1946 to 1949, are also included in the list.  
  The club currently holds the record for the most Premier League titles with 13, and the highest number of English top-flight titles with 20. The club's record appearance maker is Ryan Giggs, who made 963 appearances between 1991 and 2014, and the club's record goalscorer is Wayne Rooney, who scored 253 goals in 559 appearances between 2004 and 2017.  
  Manchester United's first trophy was the Manchester Cup, which they won as Newton Heath LYR in 1886.[3] Their first national senior honour came in 1908, when they won the 1907–08 Football League First Division title. The club also won the FA Cup for the first time the following year. In terms of the number of trophies won, the 1990s were Manchester United's most successful decade, during which they won five league titles, four FA Cups, one League Cup, five Charity Shields (one shared)[A], one Champions League, one Cup Winners' Cup, one Super Cup and one Intercontinental Cup.  
  The club currently holds the record for most top-division titles, with 20. They were also the first team to win the Premier League, as well as holding the record for the most Premier League titles (13), and became the first English team to win the European Cup when they won it in 1968. Their most recent trophy came in February 2023, when they won the EFL Cup.[4]  
  All current players are in bold All stats accurate as of match played 3 June 2023  
  Most consecutive League appearances: 206 – Steve Coppell, 15 January 1977 – 7 November 1981[10]  
  Competitive, professional matches only. Appearances as substitute (in parentheses) included in total.  
  Competitive, professional matches only, appearances including substitutes appear in brackets.  
  Most consecutive clean sheets: 12 - Edwin van der Sar (21 December 2008 – 24 February 2009)[36]  
  Most consecutive League clean sheets: 14 - Edwin van der Sar (15 November 2008 – 18 February 2009)[36]  
  Competitive, professional matches only, appearances including substitutes appear in brackets.  
  Manchester United's record signing is Paul Pogba, who signed for the club from Juventus for a world record fee of £89.3 million in August 2016.[37][38] The signing of Anthony Martial for £36 million in 2015 set a world record for the transfer of a teenager,[39] and the £80 million paid for Harry Maguire in 2019 was a world record for a defender.[40]  
  The first transfer for which Manchester United (then Newton Heath) had to pay a fee was the transfer of Gilbert Godsmark from Ashford in January 1900, paying £40 for the forward.[citation needed] The club's first £1,000 transfer came in 1910, when they signed Leslie Hofton from Glossop.[citation needed] When the club signed Tommy Taylor from Barnsley in 1953, the fee was intended to be £30,000. However, Matt Busby did not want to burden the young player with the "£30,000-man" tag, and Barnsley agreed for the fee to be reduced by £1 to £29,999. Busby then took the extra pound from his wallet and gave it to the lady who had been serving the teas.[49]  
  Manchester United made their first six-figure signing in August 1962 with the transfer of Denis Law from Torino for £110,000,[citation needed] a new British record.[50] The club broke the British transfer record again in 1981 with the £1.5 million signing of Bryan Robson from West Bromwich Albion.[51] When Andy Cole signed for United in January 1995, the club paid £7 million, almost double their previous record of £3.75 million, which they paid for Roy Keane 18 months earlier.[citation needed] In the summer of 2001, the club broke their transfer record twice in the space of a month, first paying PSV Eindhoven £19 million for Ruud van Nistelrooy, and then £28.1 million to Lazio for Juan Sebastián Verón. Manchester United have broken the British transfer record three times since buying Verón, with the signings of Rio Ferdinand in July 2002,[52] Ángel Di María[citation needed] in August 2014 and Paul Pogba in August 2016.[citation needed]  
  Transfers in bold are also records for fees paid by British clubs[53][54]  
  The club's first British record sale came in March 1949, when Derby County paid £24,500 for Johnny Morris. However, 35 years passed before Manchester United next broke the record for the biggest sale by a British club; the sale of Ray Wilkins to Milan for £1.5 million in June 1984 was also the club's first million-pound sale. Another British record followed two years later with the sale of Mark Hughes to Barcelona for £2.5 million. The club's record sale increased fivefold in the space of two transfers over the next 15 years; first with the £7 million sale of Paul Ince to Internazionale in 1995, and then the 2001 transfer of Jaap Stam to Lazio for £15.25 million.[citation needed] Manchester United broke the world transfer record for the first time in July 2009 with the £80 million sale of Cristiano Ronaldo to Real Madrid.[57]  
  The following players have won the Ballon d'Or while playing for Manchester United:[68]  
  The following players have won the European Golden Shoe while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won the UEFA awards while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won FIFPRO awards while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won Premier League awards while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players were awarded British honours while playing for Manchester United:  
  All nine of Newton Heath's international players played for Wales.[106] The first non-Welshman to be capped, and the first after the club's change of name to Manchester United, was Charlie Roberts, who was capped for England against Ireland on 25 February 1905.[107]  
  Current Manchester United players in bold. Last updated 18 December 2022.  
  FIFA World Cup  
  The following players have won the FIFA World Cup while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won the FIFA Confederations Cup while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won the UEFA Nations League while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won the Copa América while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won the CONCACAF Gold Cup while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won a gold medal in football at the Olympic Games while playing for Manchester United:  
  The following players have won CONCACAF Gold Cup awards while playing for Manchester United:  
  First full-time manager: Jack Robson – Robson was manager of Manchester United for 6 years and 10 months, starting on 28 December 1914, before pneumonia forced his retirement in October 1921.[109]  
  Longest-serving manager: Sir Alex Ferguson – 26 years, 194 days (1,500 matches; 6 November 1986 to 19 May 2013)[110][111]  
  The following managers have won Premier League awards while managing Manchester United:  
  The following managers were awarded British honours while managing Manchester United:  
  First FA Cup match: Fleetwood Rangers 2–2 Newton Heath, first round, 30 October 1886[120]  
  First European match: Anderlecht 0–2 Manchester United, European Cup preliminary round, first leg, 12 September 1956[125]  
  Record win: 10–0 v Anderlecht, European Cup preliminary round, second leg, 26 September 1956[127]  
  Record European win: 10–0 v Anderlecht, European Cup preliminary round, second leg, 26 September 1956[127]  
  Record Champions League win: 7–1 v Roma, Champions League quarter-final, second leg, 10 April 2007[127]  
  Record home win 10–0 v Anderlecht, European Cup preliminary round, second leg, 26 September 1956[127]  
  Longest unbeaten run (all major competitions)[D]: 45 matches, 26 December 1998 to 3 October 1999[132]  
  Longest unbeaten home run (League): 36 matches, 26 December 1998 to 17 December 2000[136]  
  Longest unbeaten away run (all major competitions): 21 Matches, 5 December 1998 to 22 September 1999[137]  
  Longest unbeaten away run (League): 29 matches, 17 February 2020 to 16 October 2021[138]  
  Longest winning streak (League): 14 matches, 15 October 1904 to 3 January 1905[133]  
  Longest losing streak (League): 14 matches, 26 April 1930 to 25 October 1930[133]  
  Longest drawing streak (League): 6 matches, 30 October 1988 to 27 November 1988[133]  
  Longest streak without a win (League): 16 matches, 19 April 1930 to 25 October 1930[133]  
  Longest scoring run (League): 36 matches, 3 December 2007 to 15 November 2008[133]  
  Longest streak without conceding a goal (League): 14 matches, 15 November 2008 to 18 February 2009[140]  
  Most wins in a league season: 28 – 1905–06, 1956–57, 1999–2000, 2006–07, 2008–09, 2011–12, 2012–13[1]  
  A. ^ Between 1949 and 1993, when the Charity Shield finished in a draw, the Shield would be shared by the two teams. In the 1980s and early 1990s, the Shield itself was held by each club for six months.[145]  
  B. ^ The Premier League took over from the First Division as the top tier of the English football league system upon its formation in 1992. The First Division then became the second tier of English football, the Second Division became the third tier, and so on. The First Division is now known as the Football League Championship, while the Second Division is now known as Football League One.  
  F. ^ Barthez had just sealed his move from Monaco before the tournament had begun and had yet to make his United debut.[146]  
  G. ^ Heinze had moved from Paris Saint-Germain before the tournament had begun and had yet to make his United debut.  
  ^ White, John (2007). The United Miscellany. London: Carlton Books. p. 66. ISBN 978-1-84442-745-1.  
  ^ White, John D. T. (29 May 2008). "January". The Official Manchester United Almanac (1st ed.). London: Orion Books. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-7528-9192-7.  
  ^ Rostance, Tom (26 February 2012). "Norwich 1–2 Man Utd". BBC Sport. Retrieved 26 February 2012.  
  ^ Brandon, Derek (1978). A–Z of Manchester Football: 100 Years of Rivalry. London: Boondoggle. p. 109.  
  ^ May, John (25 November 2005). "The best of Best". BBC Sport. Retrieved 21 April 2008.  
  ^ Crick, Michael (1999) [1996]. "Red Hat-Tricks". Manchester United: The Complete Fact Book (2nd ed.). London: Profile Books. p. 84. ISBN 1-86197-206-7.  
  ^ Ponting, Ivan (2008) [1989]. Manchester United: Player by Player (8th ed.). Studley: Know The Score Books. p. 84. ISBN 978-1-84818-300-1.  
  ^ Johnson, Dale. "Bryan Robson". ESPNsoccernet. Retrieved 3 August 2008.  
  ^ Fifield, Dominic (23 July 2002). "United finally land Ferdinand". The Guardian. London: Guardian News and Media. Retrieved 8 December 2011.  
  ^ "From £250,000 to £29.1m". Observer Sport Monthly. London: Guardian News and Media Limited. 5 March 2006. Retrieved 11 August 2008.  
  ^ a b White, John (2007). The United Miscellany. London: Carlton Books. p. 60. ISBN 978-1-84442-745-1.  
  ^ a b Barnes, Justyn; Bostock, Adam; Butler, Cliff; Ferguson, Jim; Meek, David; Mitten, Andy; Pilger, Sam; Taylor, Frank; Tyrrell, Tom (2001). The Official Manchester United Illustrated Encyclopedia. London: Manchester United Books. p. 44. ISBN 0-233-99964-7.  
  ^ Murphy, Alex (2006). The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. p. 73. ISBN 0-7528-7603-1.  
  ^ a b c d "Newton Heath". Football Club History Database. Retrieved 3 August 2008.  
  ^ Hibbs, Ben (3 April 2008). "Defence on for record". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Retrieved 3 August 2008.  
  ^ James, Gary (2008) [2008]. Manchester - A Football History (1st ed.). Halifax: James Ward. p. 492. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5.  
  ^ White, John D. T. (2008). The Official Manchester United Almanac. London: Orion Books. pp. 36–37. ISBN 978-0-7528-9192-7.  
  Clubs are grouped by their division in the 2022–23 season. • ‡ club based in Wales that competes in English leagues.  
  This list details the club's achievements in major competitions, and the top scorers for each season. Top scorers in bold were also the top scorers in the English league that season. Records of competitions such as the Lancashire Cup and the Manchester and District Challenge Cup are not included due to them being considered of less importance than the FA Cup and the League Cup.  
  The club formed in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR F.C.[3] At this time organised League football did not exist; "first class matches" were arranged on a largely ad-hoc basis and supplemented by cup competitions. Official records from these matches are sketchy at best, and are often extrapolated from newspaper reports at the time. In 1886, the club entered the FA Cup for the first time, but were knocked out in the first round. They entered The Combination in 1888, but the league was wound up before the season could be completed.[4] The club then joined the Football Alliance in 1889, and in 1892 were elected to the newly formed Football League First Division. Upon joining the Football League, the club dropped the "LYR" from their name, before financial troubles forced the club to restructure in 1902, including a change of name to Manchester United F.C.[5]  
  In 1956–57, Manchester United became the first English club to enter European competition, entering the European Cup, following the Football Association's refusal to allow Chelsea to enter the previous year. Eleven years later, in 1968, they became the first English club to win the European Cup, and only the second British side after Celtic had won it the year before. Meanwhile, in 1960–61, Manchester United entered the inaugural Football League Cup, only to decline to enter for the next five years. In 1992–93, they became founder members and inaugural champions of the Premier League, and, in 1998–99, they won an unprecedented Treble of the Premier League, FA Cup and UEFA Champions League. This was followed by two more Premier League titles in 1999–2000 and 2000–01, making Manchester United only the fourth club to win three consecutive English league titles. The club picked up their 10th Premier League title in the 2007–08 season, and followed it with a third Champions League title 10 days later. The following season, Manchester United became the first British club to win the FIFA Club World Cup, before becoming the first English club to claim three consecutive league titles twice. In 2010–11, Manchester United won their 19th top division title, passing Liverpool's previous record of 18, before winning a 20th title in 2012–13. In 2016–17, Manchester United won their first UEFA Europa League trophy, making them only the fifth club to win the three main European club competitions.[6]  
  ^ The club did not start playing league football until 1888.  
  ^ The EFL Cup, historically more known as the League Cup, was first created for the 1960–61 season.  
  ^ The first UEFA club competition, the European Cup, currently known as the UEFA Champions League, was created for the 1955–56 season.  
  ^ The 1888–89 season was cut short for Newton Heath, as the Combination was wound up in April 1889, and so the team was unable to complete its programme of 16 matches. However, records show that the club had the best record of all the teams in the league at that point.  
  ^ Formal promotion and relegation had not yet been established, and so the bottom team in the Football League First Division would play a so-called "Test match" against the top team in the Second Division, Small Heath. Newton Heath drew the original Test match 1–1, then won the replay 5–2, and retained their place in the First Division.  
  ^ Formal promotion and relegation had still not been introduced, and so another Test match was played between Newton Heath and Liverpool, the winners of the Second Division. Newton Heath lost, and were relegated.  
  ^ As a reward for finishing in 3rd place, Newton Heath played yet another Test match against the team that finished third from bottom in the First Division, Stoke City. They lost, and remained in the Second Division.  
  ^ For finishing in 2nd place, Newton Heath had to play Test matches against Burnley and Sunderland in order to gain promotion to Division One. They beat Burnley over two legs, but lost to Sunderland and remained in Division Two.  
  ^ No competitive football was played between 1915 and 1919 due to the First World War.  
  ^ The 1939–40 season was abandoned in early September and all results annulled, after only three matches had been played; Manchester United were tenth in the table at the time.  
  ^ No competitive football was played between 1939 and 1946 due to the Second World War.  
  ^ The FA Cup was contested in 1945–46 but the Football League did not resume until the following season.  
  ^ a b c d e f g Despite entering the first League Cup in 1960–61, like many other major clubs, Manchester United declined to take part again until the 1966–67 season. They then missed two consecutive seasons in 1967–68 and 1968–69.  
  ^ a b c d From 1939 to 1993, in the event of a draw, the Charity Shield would be shared between the two competing teams, with each team having possession of the trophy for six months.  
  ^ The 1981–82 season saw the introduction of three points for a win.  
  ^ Manchester United were deducted one point after a brawl in a game with Arsenal on 20 October 1990.  
  Murphy, Alex (2006). The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. ISBN 0-7528-7603-1.  
  Shury, Alan; Landamore, Brian (2005) [2002]. The Definitive Newton Heath F.C. 'Definitive' Club Histories (2nd ed.). Nottingham: SoccerData. ISBN 1-899468-16-1.  
  Rundle, Richard. "Manchester United". Football Club History Database. Archived from the original on 15 July 2015. Retrieved 19 February 2010.  
  Specific  
  ^ "Trophy Room". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. 2007. Archived from the original on 18 May 2012. Retrieved 28 May 2007.  
  ^ "Won, Drawn, Lost". StretfordEnd.co.uk. Barn End Media. Archived from the original on 23 March 2015. Retrieved 16 August 2020. Excludes matches from the abandoned 1939–40 season  
  ^ Murphy, Alex (2006). "1878-1915: From Newton Heath to Old Trafford". The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. p. 11. ISBN 0-7528-7603-1.  
  ^ Shury, Alan; Landamore, Brian (2005) [2002]. "History of Newton Heath F.C.". The Definitive Newton Heath F.C. 'Definitive' Club Histories (Second ed.). Nottingham: SoccerData. p. 11. ISBN 1-899468-16-1. ...the Combination was wound up in April 1889. From Newton Heath's viewpoint, that was a pity. They had almost completed their programme of 16 games and had the best record of the 20 clubs.  
  ^ Murphy, Alex (2006). "1878-1915: From Newton Heath to Old Trafford". The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. p. 15. ISBN 0-7528-7603-1.  
  FoundationNews  
  LFC FoundationLiverpool FC and Manchester United Foundations join forces to provide education on impact of tragedy chanting  
  The Foundations of Liverpool FC and Manchester United have come together to deliver an education programme on the impact of tragedy-related abuse and why it must stop.  
  In the lead up to the Premier League fixture between the sides at Old Trafford on April 7, the two Foundations invited schoolchildren from Manchester and Liverpool to Lord Derby School in Huyton for an afternoon learning about the tragic histories of the two great football clubs.  
  Phil Thompson and Wes Brown – who won 12 league titles and five European Cups between them for Liverpool and United, respectively – joined the session and spoke with students about the huge impact the Hillsborough and Munich disasters had on the two clubs, their fans, and the cities.  
  The two Foundations are developing the programme in partnership with the Premier League and plan to make it an annual part of their engagement with tens of thousands of young people across the Greater Manchester and Merseyside regions.  
  Liverpool and United have been at the forefront of the Premier League’s campaign against tragedy-related abuse, with managers Jurgen Klopp and Erik ten Hag last season issuing a joint statement calling for an end to chanting about Hillsborough, Heysel and Munich.  
  In addition to measures to educate fans, both clubs are committed to action against those found to have committed tragedy-related abuse, whether in stadiums or online. Club bans have been imposed on several fans following the recent FA Cup clash between United and Liverpool at Old Trafford and tragedy chanting is also liable to criminal prosecution.  
  Matt Parish, CEO of LFC Foundation, said: “This is a hugely important event which both clubs are committed to making happen every year. Our two proud Foundations coming together to show young people, and all others, how we stand united against tragedy chanting is a very powerful message. Education is key, alongside appropriate action, to eradicating vile tragedy chanting in all its forms forever, and we’re delighted to be able do our bit to help.”  
  John Shiels, CEO of Manchester United Foundation, added: “It is unacceptable to use the loss of life, in relation to any tragedy, to score points, and it is time for it to stop. We are proud to come together with LFC Foundation as we believe education will break the generational cycle on this issue and help thousands of young people across this region understand the impact tragedy-related abuse has.”  
  Manchester Central was an English football club based in Manchester that was formed in 1928. The name was revived in 2015 by a new team in the Manchester League.  
  The team was formed in 1928 by Manchester City director, John Ayrton and the owner of Belle Vue, John Iles. Ayrton created Manchester Central because he felt East Manchester needed a League side.[1] City had moved out of the area in 1923, but had initially considered moving to Belle Vue.[2]  
  The club played at the Belle Vue Athletics stadium, more commonly known as the Speedway Stadium. One of the coaches was Billy Meredith, the Welsh international and former Manchester City and Manchester United player. Their manager was James McMahon.[3]  
  The club joined the Lancashire Combination in its first year finishing seventh in the twenty team competition. This led to an immediate application to join the Football League for the 1929–30 season; this bid failed.  
  The 1929–30 season, the club finished as runners up in the Combination and the reserves played in the Cheshire County League, the only other reserve teams in that league being from Football League clubs. After a successful season another application for League status was made and failed again.  
  The 1930–31 season was less successful finishing seventh in the Combination and the reserves bottom. A further application for League status failed with Chester gaining membership. This led to withdrawal from the Combination and focus solely on the Cheshire County League. After Wigan Borough had to resign from the Football League in October 1931, Central applied to take their place. This was initially accepted by the leaders of Division Three (North), but a formal complaint was made jointly by First Division Manchester City and Second Division Manchester United.[4] They believed that a third Manchester side would seriously damage Manchester United, who were struggling for support and finance. The Football League backed the existing Manchester League sides and Central were denied. The Manchester clubs, in particular United, received significantly bad media coverage as a result and this act damaged their image and support further.[5]  
  At the end of the season Central resigned from the Cheshire County League, realising their ambitions would be unfulfilled. They continued on for a few more seasons in the Manchester Amateur League.  
  Central were an ambitious side and attracted many significant crowds, such as 8,500 for the visit of Wrexham during 1929–30.[6] They also signed international players, such as Welsh international Bert Gray.  
  It is widely believed that Manchester Central was considered as a new name for Newton Heath F.C. prior to them becoming Manchester United in 1902, but there is no factual evidence from the period to suggest this is true – all comments come from later histories, while detailed records and media reports from the period make no reference whatsoever to this idea. In fact it seems highly improbable as Manchester Central was already the name of another football side competing in the Manchester region during the 1890s. This first Manchester Central played at Alexandra Park and ceased to exist around the turn of the century. The directors of Newton Heath would not have selected that name for fear of confusion.[7]  
  James, Gary (2003), Farewell to Maine Road, Polar Publishing, ISBN 1899538194  
  James, Gary (2008), Manchester – A Football History, James Ward, ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5  
  Accessibility links  
  Manchester City FC  
  Historical insights into 6 of the biggest English Football Clubs  
  How underachieving 'noisy neighbours' became City slickers.  
  History lesson  
  There was a time when Manchester City were perennial underachievers, the nearly men of English football. If anything could go wrong, it would for the blue half of Manchester – who else but City could be the only side to be English champions one season (1936-37) and relegated the next?  
  A thick skin and a sense of humour have been needed as the club have flitted between England’s top two divisions with the added pain of seeing fierce local rivals Manchester United, under Sir Matt Busby and then Sir Alex Ferguson, sweep all before them. For one season, as recently as 1998-1999, City even slipped into the third tier and they have been the butt of opposition fans’ jokes.  
  However, everything changed in the summer of 2008, when Sheikh Mansour arrived with his billions. Suddenly, the “Blue Moon” was rising over City. A club less than a decade before playing Macclesfield Town and Lincoln City were now signing world-class players with £32.5m (US$60m) Robinho paving the way for the later arrivals of Carlos Tevez, Yaya Toure and Sergio Aguero as City closed in on their first Premier League title.  
  Roberto Mancini ended their 35-year wait for a major trophy with the FA Cup in 2011, and the following season he brought a first league title in 44 years — Aguero’s 94th-minute winner against Queens Park Rangers also gave City the added satisfaction of denying United with the last meaningful kick of the season.  
  The so-called “noisy neighbours” had been awoken and were ready for more. City were champions of England for the fourth time two years later under Manuel Pellegrini, who also added two League Cups to the roll of honour. But, the recent appointment of Pep Guardiola, acclaimed as the best coach in the world, underlines the club’s status as a bona fide force in European and world football.  
  City started life in 1880 when St Mark’s Church formed a team, evolving into Ardwick AFC seven years later. But, it was not until 1894 that the name Manchester City came into being, two years after they were founder members of Second Division of the Football League. They joined the First Division in 1889 after winning the first of seven second-tier league titles and became the first Manchester side to win a major honour, lifting the FA Cup in 1904 — it took them another 30 years to do so again.  
  There were happier times, under manager Joe Mercer and his assistant Malcolm Allison. City were a pleasure to watch, full of swagger and style, and won the First Division again in 1967-68, the FA Cup a year later and the League Cup and European Cup Winners’ Cup in 1970. But that was largely it until Sheikh Mansour.  
  Like many Premier League clubs, City play in a new — or at least relatively new — ground. They left Maine Road, their home of 80 years, in 2003, for the Etihad Stadium, which was originally built for the 2002 Commonwealth Games.  
  Great players  
  The City team that triumphed at home and in Europe in the late 1960s was full of talented players. Colin Bell was widely renowned as one of the most skilful, graceful footballers of his generation, while Mike Summerbee was a tricky winger full of flair and panache – a player of his time.  
  Into the 1970s, the flamboyant Rodney Marsh brought plenty of swagger to Maine Road, while Francis Lee, with 148 goals in 330 games, was a key player for the men in sky blue.  
  Prior to that golden age, the man who kept goal for City when they won the FA Cup in 1956 should not be forgotten. Bert Trautmann, a former German prisoner of war, defied a broken neck to make several crucial saves and lead his team to a 3-1 victory over Birmingham City in the final.  
  The club’s all-time top goal scorer is Eric Brook, who netted 177 times between 1927 and 1940, while Alan Oakes holds the appearance record, playing 682 times between 1959 and 1976.  
  The modern day City team, arguably, contains many of the greatest players in the club’s history, not least Aguero, one of the most lethal strikers in world football, and captain Vincent Kompany, a commanding figure who has already lifted the Premier League trophy twice.  
  This season  
  Finishing fourth last season was a huge disappointment for City in what, with the squad and riches available to them, they will feel should have been another title-winning campaign.  
  Pellegrini has paid the price and has been replaced by Guardiola, who with just the 21 trophies to his name from his stints at Barcelona and Bayern Munich, is promising to shake up not just the City squad but the Premier League as a whole.  
  He has brought in the likes of Spain winger Nolito and Germany playmaker Ilkay Gundogan, while the US$62.1m shelled out on England defender John Stones is a sign that the Spaniard will seek to develop a fluid footballing style right from the back of the team. Joe Hart, the England goalkeeper, has been sidelined to accommodate this play.  
  Guardiola has inherited an ageing squad and may need time for his intensive methods to work their magic. Then again, at his previous clubs, he hit the ground running, with titles and cups from the very first season. Who is to say that will not be the case again at City?  
  Did you know?  
  Aged 15, two weeks before his 16th birthday, Glyn Pardoe became the youngest player to appear for Manchester City when he made his debut in a 4-1 defeat at home to Birmingham City in April 1962.  
  City achieved a rare feat in finishing fifth in the First Division in the 1957-58 season – they scored 104 goals but also managed to concede 100.  
  In 2002, City broke their transfer record, paying Preston North End £5m (US$10m) for striker Jon Macken. Fourteen years later, Kevin de Bruyne is their record signing at US$82m from Wolfsburg last summer.  
  City scored 156 goals in all competitions in the 2013-14 season, the most in the club’s history, as they won the Premier League and League Cup.  
  Maine Road, until 2003 the club’s home ground, is now the site of 474 homes. There is also a public art display commemorating the stadium, including a point marking where the centre spot used to be.  
  A Fan's Guide to watching Manchester City FC on Foxtel  
  Every week, City TV will bring you a 3-hour weekly wrap of the best action from the club, covering every Manchester City game from the Premier League, FA Cup, EFL Cup and UEFA Champions League. There are also exclusive behind-the-scenes interviews with the manager and players.  
  Manchester City FC  
  British football club  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Please select which sections you would like to print:  
  Table Of Contents  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Manchester City FC, English men’s professional football (soccer) club based in Manchester. Manchester City achieved consistent top-division success and claimed multiple titles after Sheikh Mansour ibn Zayed Al Nahyan purchased a controlling share in the club in 2008.  
  Founding and early history  
  Manchester City traces its history to a football team founded in 1880 by members of St. Mark’s Church in Manchester. That team became Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 and Manchester City Football Club (FC) in 1894. From 1894 to 2008 the club moved among the upper tiers of English football, regularly suffering relegation and winning promotion. It was champion of football’s second tier seven times, and it won the Football League First Division championship twice (in the 1936–37 and 1967–68 seasons). Manchester City also won the Football Association Challenge Cup (FA Cup) four times (1903–04, 1933–34, 1955–56, and 1968–69), the English League Cup twice (1969–70 and 1975–76), and the European Cup Winners’ Cup once (1969–70). Notable players from this era include Bert Trautmann, who was goalkeeper for Manchester City from 1949 to 1964, and midfielders Alan Oakes (played 1959–76) and Colin Bell (played 1966–79).  
  After winning back-to-back promotions following the 1998–99 and 1999–2000 seasons that enabled the club to ascend to English football’s top-tier English Premier League, Manchester City was once again relegated to the sport’s second tier after their lacklustre 2000–01 season. The club returned to the Premier League in 2002, however, and has remained there. In 2003 Manchester City moved from Maine Road, the stadium where it had played since 1923, to the City of Manchester Stadium (later also called Etihad Stadium).  
  2008 financial takeover  
  The Abu Dhabi United Group, owned by Sheikh Mansour ibn Zayed Al Nahyan, purchased a controlling stake in Manchester City FC in 2008 from Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister of Thailand who had bought into the club in 2007. Mansour, a senior member of Abu Dhabi’s ruling family and one of the foremost businessmen of the United Arab Emirates, invested heavily, and the team’s performance soon improved. Manchester City won the FA Cup in 2011, its first major trophy since Mansour’s takeover. On the last day of the 2011–12 Premier League season, the team snatched the league title away from Manchester United on goal difference with the help of a stoppage time goal by Sergio Agüero against Queens Park Rangers FC. They won the Premier League again in 2013–14 and the English League Cup in 2013–14 and 2015–16.  
  After the appointment of manager Pep Guardiola in 2016, Manchester City expanded on their success. After a trophyless first season, the club set the all-time Premier League points record with 100 points as well as single-season Premier League records for goals scored and goal differential, among others, during their title-winning 2017–18 season. They repeated in 2018–19 and won the Premier League title again in 2020–21 and 2021–22. Manchester City won the FA Cup in 2018–19. The club was also the League Cup winner in 2017–18, 2018–19, 2019–20, and 2020–21. Manchester City reached the Champions League Final for the first time in its history during the 2020–21 season, though they lost to Chelsea FC; the club won the Champions League title in 2022–23. In 2021 Manchester City was the first club to withdraw from a controversial plan to form a new European Super League. Notable players who joined Manchester City in 2008 and afterward are centre back Vincent Kompany, midfielders Yaya Touré, David Silva, and Kevin De Bruyne, and forward Sergio Agüero.  
  The Manchester City Women’s Football Club was founded in 1988. Affiliated with Manchester United FC from its creation, the women’s team formalized its partnership with the men’s team in 2012 and entered the Women’s Super League in 2013.  
  Get a Britannica Premium subscription and gain access to exclusive content. Subscribe Now  
  "Manchester City" and "Man City" redirect here. For the city itself, see Manchester. For the television show episode, see Man City (Ted Lasso).  
  Manchester City  
  Full name  
  Manchester City Football Club  
  The club joined the Football League in 1892, and won their first major honour, the FA Cup, in 1904. Manchester City had its first major period of success in the late 1960s and early 1970s, winning the league title, FA Cup, League Cup, and European Cup Winners Cup under the management of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison. After losing the 1981 FA Cup final, Manchester City went through a period of decline, culminating in relegation to the third tier of English football for the only time in their history in 1998. They since regained promotion to the top tier in 2001–02 and have remained a fixture in the Premier League since 2002–03.  
  Manchester City received considerable financial investment both in playing staff and facilities following its takeover by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan through the Abu Dhabi United Group in August 2008.[5] This started a new era of unprecedented success, with the club winning the FA Cup in 2011 and the Premier League in 2012, both their first since the 1960s, followed by another league title in 2014. Under the management of Pep Guardiola, Manchester City won the Premier League in 2018, becoming the only team in the competition history to attain 100 points in a single season. In 2018–19, they won four trophies, completing an unprecedented sweep of all domestic titles in England and becoming the first English men's team to win the domestic treble.[6] This was followed by three consecutive Premier League titles in 2020–21, 2021–22, and 2022–23, as well as the club's first-ever Champions League final in 2021, which they lost to Chelsea. The 2022–23 season saw Manchester City win their maiden European Cup and complete the continental treble in the process, becoming the second English club to do so.[7] The club is ranked first in the UEFA coefficient standings as of 2023.[8]  
  History  
  Early years and first trophies  
  City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division. They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904, beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup; the Blues narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the league campaign, but they still became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour.[15] In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith, who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United.[16] A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side.[17]  
  In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933, before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934.[18] During the 1934 run, the club broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth-round FA Cup tie against Stoke City – a record which stood until 2016.[19][20] The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division.[21] Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United, and won the second. The 1956 final, in which the Blues defeated Birmingham City 3–1, saw City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck.[22]  
  First golden era and subsequent decline  
  After being relegated to the Second Division in 1963, the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965.[23] In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, Manchester City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell.[24] Two seasons later, in 1967–68, City claimed the league championship for the second time, beating their close neighbours Manchester United to the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 victory at Newcastle United.[25] Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969 and a year later triumphed in the European Cup Winners' Cup, defeating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in the 1970 final. This was the club's only European honour until their triumph in the 2022–23 UEFA Champions League.[26] The Blues also won the League Cup that year, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season.  
  The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup.[27] One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals.[28][29] The final trophy of the club's most successful period of the 20th century was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final.  
  A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on several unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley.[30] A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond, City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur. The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 and finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of Peter Reid.[31] However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992, but after finishing ninth in its first season they endured three years of struggle before being relegated in 1996. After two seasons in the First Division,[a] City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third-tier league after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany.  
  Recovery and two takeovers  
  After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline.[32] Under manager Joe Royle, City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in the Second Division play-off final against Gillingham.[33] A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan replaced Royle as manager in the close season, and achieved an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 First Division championship, breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a single season in the process.[34] The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a 13-year run without a derby win.[35] Additionally, City qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years via UEFA fair play ranking. In the close 2003–04 season, the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first foreign manager when appointed in 2007.[36] After a bright start, performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked on 2 June 2008;[37] he was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later.[38]  
  By 2008, Manchester City were in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club the year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen.[39] Then, in August 2008, City were purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group. The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million.[40] There was not a huge improvement in performance compared to the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth, although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup. During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry, Roque Santa Cruz, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, Carlos Tevez, and Joleon Lescott.[41] In December 2009, Mark Hughes – who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board – was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini.[42] City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League, narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League but qualifying for the UEFA Europa League.[43]  
  Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola  
  Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. City reached the FA Cup final in 2011, their first major final in over 30 years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-finals,[44] the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. The Blues defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup and the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. On the last day of the 2010–11 season, City beat out Arsenal for the third place, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage.[45]  
  Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season, including a 5–1 victory over Tottenham at White Hart Lane and a record-equalling 6–1 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford, but a poor run of form in the second half of the season left City in second place, eight points behind United with only six games left to play. At this point, United suffered their own loss of form, dropping eight points in the space of four games, while City began a run of successive wins which saw both teams level on points with two games to go. Despite the Blues only needing a home win against Queens Park Rangers, a team in the relegation zone, they fell 1–2 behind by the end of normal time. However, two goals in injury time – the second by Sergio Agüero in the fourth added minute – settled the title in City's favour, making them the first team to win the Premier League on goal difference alone.[46]  
  Pep Guardiola, former head coach of Barcelona and Bayern Munich, was confirmed to become Manchester City's new manager on 1 February 2016,[53] with the announcement having been made several months before Manuel Pellegrini left his position. Guardiola's first season in Manchester would end trophyless, with the Blues placing third in the league standings,[54] but the following season proved far more successful, as City won the Premier League title with the highest points total in history and broke numerous other club and English league records along the way.[55]  
  This would prove to be the start of a period of unprecedented success for Manchester City under Guardiola. Between the 2017–18 and 2022–23 Premier League seasons, City won five out of possible six league titles, only finishing second behind Liverpool in the 2019–20 season.[56] Guardiola also guided the Blues to silverware in domestic cup competitions, highlighted by four consecutive League Cup triumphs in 2018–2021.[57] During the 2018–19 season, City completed an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles.[58] Apart from winning all three of the major English football tournaments, they also won the Community Shield, the first time any team has ever held all four of England's primary football trophies at the same time.[59] On the continental stage, the club achieved breakthrough in 2020–21, reaching their first-ever Champions League final.[60] In an all-English affair, City lost 0–1 to Chelsea at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto.[61]  
  The 2022–23 season turned out to be the greatest in the club's history, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and their maiden Champions League title at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul against Inter Milan, thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble. The road to the Champions League victory included wins over European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate,[62] and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City.[63][64][65]  
  Manchester City's era of sustained competitive excellence coincided with charges of breaching Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations. In 2020, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) ruled that sanctions placed on the club by UEFA were not justified, overturning City's two-year European ban.[66] In 2023, the Premier League announced its own investigation of the allegations levied against Manchester City, charging the club with 115 breaches of its FFP rules up to the 2017–18 season.[67]  
  L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system; L3 = Level 3 of the football league system.  
  Club badge and colours  
  Manchester City's home colours are sky blue and white. Traditional away kit colours have been either maroon or (from the 1960s) red and black; however, in recent years several colours have been used. The origins of the club's home colours are unclear, but there is evidence that the club has worn blue since 1892 or earlier. A booklet entitled Famous Football Clubs – Manchester City published in the 1940s indicates that West Gorton (St. Marks) originally played in scarlet and black, and reports dating from 1884 describe the team wearing black jerseys bearing a white cross, showing the club's origins as a church side.[68] The infrequent yet recurrent use of red and black away colours comes from former assistant manager Malcolm Allison's belief that adopting the colours of AC Milan would inspire City to glory.[69] Allison's theory seemingly took effect, with City winning the 1969 FA Cup final, 1970 League Cup final, and 1970 Cup Winners' Cup final in red and black stripes as opposed to the club's home kit of sky blue.  
  City had previously worn three other badges on their shirts, prior to their current badge being implemented in 2016. The first, introduced in 1970, was based on designs which had been used on official club documentation since the mid-1960s. It consisted of a circular badge which used the same shield as the present badge (including a ship, based on the City of Manchester coat of arms), inside a circle bearing the name of the club. In 1972, this was replaced by a variation which replaced the lower half of the shield with the red rose of Lancashire. In 1976, a heraldic badge was granted by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by City. The badge consisted of the familiar ship above a red rose but on a circular device instead of a shield (blazoned as "A roundel per fess azure and argent in chief a three masted ship sails set pennons flying or in base a rose gules barbed and seeded proper").[70]  
  On occasions when Manchester City played in a major cup final, the club wore shirts bearing the City of Manchester coat of arms, as a symbol of pride in representing the city at a major event. This practice originated from a time when the players' shirts did not normally bear a badge of any kind.[71] The club has since abandoned the practice; for the 2011 FA Cup final, its first in the 21st century, City used the usual badge with a special legend, but the Manchester coat of arms was included as a small monochrome logo in the numbers on the back of players' shirts.[72]  
  A new club badge was adopted in 1997, as a result of the previous badge being ineligible for registration as a trademark. This badge was based on the arms of the city of Manchester, and consisted of a shield in front of a golden eagle. The eagle is an old heraldic symbol of the city of Manchester; a golden eagle was added to the city's badge in 1958 (but had since been removed), representing the growing aviation industry. The shield featured a ship on its upper half representing the Manchester Ship Canal, and three diagonal stripes in the lower half symbolised the city's three rivers – the Irwell, the Irk and the Medlock. The bottom of the badge bore the motto "Superbia in Proelio", which translates as "Pride in Battle" in Latin. Above the eagle and shield were the three stars, added for decorative purposes.  
  On 15 October 2015, following years of criticism from the fans over the design of the 1997 badge,[73] the club announced they intended to carry out a fan consultation on whether to discontinue the current badge and institute a new design.[73] After the consultation, the club announced in late November 2015 the badge would be replaced in due course by a new version which would be designed in the style of the older, circular variants.[74] A design purporting to be the new badge was unintentionally leaked two days early prior to the official unveiling on 26 December 2015 by the IPO when the design was trademarked on 22 December.[75] The new badge was officially unveiled at Manchester City's home match against Sunderland on 26 December.[76]  
  Players  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  EDS and Academy  
  The following players have previously made appearances or have appeared on the substitutes bench for the first team.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Player of the Year  
  Each season since the end of the 1966–67 season, the members of the Manchester City Official Supporters Club have voted by ballot to choose the player on the team they feel is the most worthy of recognition for his performances during that season. The following table lists the recipients of this award since 2000.  
  Halls of Fame  
  Manchester City Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Manchester City F.C. Hall of Fame, and are listed according to the year of their induction:  
  National Football Museum Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the National Football Museum Hall of Fame), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories:  
  Player  
  Position  
  Premier League Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester players have been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame. Inaugurated in 2020, but delayed for a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Hall of Fame is intended to recognise and honour players that have achieved great success and made a significant contribution to the league since its founding in 1992.  
  Player  
  Position  
  Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories:  
  Welsh Sports Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame, and are listed according to the year of their induction:  
  Notable managers  
  Manchester City managers to have won major honours. Table correct as of 16 March 2024[b]  
  Supporters  
  Since moving to the City of Manchester Stadium, the club's average attendances have been in the top six in England,[119][120] usually in excess of 40,000. Even in the late 1990s, when City were relegated twice in three seasons and playing in the third tier of English football (then the Second Division, now the EFL League One), home attendances were in the region of 30,000, compared to an average of fewer than 8,000 for the division.[121] Research carried out by Manchester City in 2005 estimated a fanbase of 886,000 in the United Kingdom and a total in excess of 2 million worldwide, although since the purchase of the club by Sheikh Mansour, and City's recent achievements, that figure has since ballooned to many times that size.[122]  
  Manchester City's officially recognised supporters club is the Manchester City F.C. Supporters Club (1949), formed by a merger of two existing organisations in 2010: the Official Supporters Club (OSC) and the Centenary Supporters Association (CSA).[123] City fans' song of choice is a rendition of "Blue Moon", which despite its melancholic theme is belted out with gusto as though it were a heroic anthem. City supporters tend to believe that unpredictability is an inherent trait of their team, and label unexpected results "typical City".[124][125] Events that fans regard as "typical City" include the club being the only reigning English champions ever to be relegated (in 1938), the only team to score and concede over 100 goals in the same season (1957–58),[126] or the more recent example where Manchester City were the only team to beat Chelsea in the latter's record-breaking 2004–05 Premier League season, yet in the same season City were knocked out of the FA Cup by Oldham Athletic, a team two divisions lower.  
  In the late 1980s, City fans started a craze of bringing inflatable objects to matches, primarily oversized bananas. One disputed explanation for the phenomenon is that in a match against West Bromwich Albion, chants from fans calling for the introduction of Imre Varadi as a substitute mutated into "Imre Banana". Terraces packed with inflatable-waving supporters became a frequent sight in the 1988–89 season, as the craze spread to other clubs (inflatable fish were seen at Grimsby Town), with the craze reaching its peak at City's match at Stoke City on 26 December 1988, a game declared by fanzines as a fancy dress party.[127] In 2010, Manchester City supporters adopted an exuberant dance, dubbed The Poznań, from fans of Polish club Lech Poznań that they played in the Europa League.[128] In 2022, Manchester City proposed the release of the Connected Scarf, that would contain a sensor tracking physiological and emotional data of the wearer, for supporters in 2023.[129]  
  Rivalries  
  Manchester City's biggest rivalry is with neighbours Manchester United, against whom they contest the Manchester derby. Before the Second World War, when travel to away games was rare, many Mancunian football fans regularly watched both teams even if considering themselves "supporters" of only one. This practice continued into the early 1960s but as travel became easier, and the cost of entry to matches rose, watching both teams became unusual and the rivalry intensified. A common stereotype is that City fans come from Manchester proper, while United fans come from elsewhere. A 2002 report by a researcher at Manchester Metropolitan University found that while it was true that a higher proportion of City season ticket holders came from Manchester postcode areas (40% compared to United's 29%), there were more United season ticket holders, the lower percentage being due to United's higher overall number of season ticket holders (27,667 compared to City's 16,481). The report noted that since the compiling of data in 2001, the number of both City and United season ticket holders had risen; expansion of United's ground and City's move to the City of Manchester Stadium have caused season ticket sales to increase further.[130]  
  Over the last few years, Manchester City has also developed a notable rivalry with Liverpool,[131] currently considered one of the biggest in association football.[132][133] Though the two clubs had been involved in a title race in the 1976–77 season, Liverpool and City's modern rivalry began in the 2010s, with the Blues beating Liverpool to the 2013–14 title by just two points on the final day of the season.[134] In the final of the 2015–16 League Cup, City defeated Liverpool on penalties after a 1–1 draw. The two clubs met in European competition for the first time in the 2017–18 Champions League quarter-finals, where Liverpool won 5–1 on aggregate, ultimately reaching the final and then winning the competition a year later.[135][136] In the 2018–19 season, City again won the title on the final day, with the Blues' 98 points and Liverpool's 97 being the third- and fourth-highest Premier League points totals ever.[137] The following season, Liverpool clinched the title, recording 99 points (the second-highest Premier League total ever after Manchester City's 100 in 2017–18) to finish 18 points above runners-up City. The Blues then regained the title in 2020–21 and outgunned Liverpool in another closely-fought title race in 2021–22, to finish with 93 points to Liverpool's 92.  
  The success of the two teams in the 2010s and 2020s has led to the development of a rivalry between Jürgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola, the managers of Liverpool and Manchester City, with the two previously having been the respective managers of Der Klassiker rivals Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga.[138] At the end of the 2018–19 season, Guardiola described his relationship with Klopp as a "beautiful rivalry" and called Klopp's Liverpool team "the strongest opponents I have faced in my career as a manager".[139][140] In September 2019, Klopp hailed Guardiola for being his 'greatest rival ever', after both were nominated for the FIFA Men's Coach of the Year award in 2019, which Klopp ultimately won.[141][142] In a 2019 survey, City fans answered that Liverpool, and not Manchester United, are the club's biggest rivals.[143]  
  Ownership and finances  
  The holding company of Manchester City F.C., Manchester City Limited, is a private limited company, with approximately 54 million shares in issue. The club has been in private hands since 2007, when the major shareholders agreed to sell their holdings to UK Sports Investments Limited (UKSIL), a company controlled by former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra. UKSIL then made a formal offer to buy the shares held by several thousands of small shareholders.  
  Prior to the Thaksin takeover, the club was listed on the specialist independent equity market PLUS (formerly OFEX),[146] where it had been listed since 1995. On 6 July 2007, having acquired 75% of the shares, Thaksin de-listed the club and re-registered it as a private company.[147] By August, UKSIL had acquired over 90% of the shares and exercised its rights under the Companies Act to "squeeze out" the remaining shareholders, and acquire the entire shareholding. Thaksin Shinawatra became chairman of the club and two of Thaksin's children, Pintongta and Oak Chinnawat became directors. Former chairman John Wardle stayed on the board for a year, but resigned in July 2008 following Nike executive Garry Cook's appointment as executive chairman in May.[148] The club made a pre-tax loss of £11m in the fiscal year ending 31 May 2007, the final year for which the club published accounts as a public company.[149]  
  Thaksin's purchase prompted a period of transfer spending at the club,[150] in total around £30 million,[151] whereas over the several previous seasons Manchester City's net spending had been among the lowest in the Premier League. A year later, this investment was dwarfed by an influx of money derived from the club's takeover. On 1 September 2008, Abu Dhabi-based Abu Dhabi United Group Investment and Development Limited completed the takeover of Manchester City. The deal, worth a reported £200 million, was announced on the morning of 1 September. It sparked various transfer "deadline-day" rumours and bids such as the club's attempt to gazump Manchester United's protracted bid to sign Dimitar Berbatov from Tottenham Hotspur for a fee in excess of £30 million.[152][153] Minutes before the transfer window closed, the club signed Robinho from Real Madrid for a British record transfer fee of £32.5 million.[154] The wealth of the new owners meant that, in the summer of 2009, City were able to finance the purchase of experienced international players prior to the new season, spending more than any other club in the Premier League.[155]  
  City Football Group  
  Created in the 2013–14 season to manage the global footballing interests of the Abu Dhabi United Group, City Football Group (CFG) is an umbrella corporation owning stakes in a network of global clubs for the purposes of resource sharing, academy networking and marketing.  
  CFG ownership  
  Listed in order of acquisition/foundation. Bold indicates the club was founded by CFG. * indicates the club was acquired by CFG. § indicates the club is co-owned.  
  On 23 January 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Australian rugby league franchise Melbourne Storm, purchasing a majority stake in A-League team Melbourne City FC. On 5 August 2015, CFG bought out the Storm and acquired full ownership of the team.[157]  
  On 20 May 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Japanese Automotive company Nissan to become a minority shareholder in Yokohama based J-League side, Yokohama F. Marinos.  
  On 5 April 2017, CFG confirmed the purchase of Uruguayan second division team Montevideo City Torque.  
  On 23 August 2017, it was announced that CFG had acquired 44.3% of Segunda División (second tier) side Girona FC. Another 44.3% was held by the Girona Football Group, led by Pere Guardiola, brother of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola.  
  On 20 February 2019, it was announced that CFG as well as UBTECH and China Sports Capital had acquired Sichuan Jiuniu F.C.  
  CFG was announced as majority stakeholder of Mumbai City FC on Thursday 28 November 2019 after acquiring 65% of the club. Mumbai City is the professional football club based in Mumbai, competing in the Indian Super League.  
  CFG was announced as a majority stakeholder of Lommel S.K. on Monday 11 May 2020, acquiring the majority (unspecified) of the club's shares. Lommel S.K. is a professional football club based in Lommel, competing in the Belgian First Division B (second tier).  
  On 3 September 2020, CFG announced that they had purchased the shares of Daniel Masoni, the former owner of Ligue 2 (second tier) club Troyes AC, making them the majority shareholder of the French club.  
  On 4 July 2022, Italian Serie B (second tier) club Palermo announced that CFG had acquired an 80% majority stake in their ownership.  
  Partner clubs  
  On 12 January 2021, CFG announced Bolivian club Club Bolívar as its first partner club.  
  On 18 February 2021, CFG announced that French Championnat National 2 (tier 4) club Vannes OC would be its second partner club.  
  Stadium  
  The City of Manchester Stadium in east Manchester, known as the Etihad Stadium since 2011 for sponsorship reasons, is on a 200-year lease from Manchester City Council to Manchester City. It has been the club's home since the end of the 2002–03 season, when City moved from Maine Road.[170] Before moving to the stadium, the club spent in excess of £30 million to convert it to football use: the pitch was lowered, adding another tier of seating around it, and a new North Stand was constructed.[171] The inaugural match at the new stadium was a 2–1 win over Barcelona in a friendly match.[172] A 7,000-seat third tier on the South Stand was completed in time for the start of the 2015–16 football season, increasing the stadium's capacity to 55,097. A North Stand third tier is in development, potentially increasing capacity to around 61,000.[173]  
  After playing home matches at five stadiums between 1880 and 1887, the club settled at Hyde Road Football Stadium, its home for 36 years.[174] A fire destroyed the Main Stand in 1920, and the club moved to the 84,000 capacity Maine Road three years later. Maine Road, nicknamed the "Wembley of the North" by its designers, hosted the largest-ever crowd at an English club ground when 84,569 attended an FA Cup tie against Stoke City on 3 March 1934.[175] Though Maine Road was redeveloped several times over its 80-year lifespan, by 1995 its capacity was restricted to 32,000, prompting the search for a new ground which culminated in the move to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2003; it was renamed the Etihad Stadium in 2011.[176]  
  Honours  
  Based on trophy count, Manchester City are one of the most successful teams in England – their thirty-four major domestic, European and worldwide honours rank them tied for fourth with Chelsea on the list of most decorated sides in England, ahead of Tottenham Hotspur with 26.  
  Three-peats  
  Club records  
  Record league victory – 11–3 vs Lincoln City (23 March 1895, most goals scored); 10–0 vs Darwen (18 February 1899, widest margin of victory)[184]  
  Record FA Cup victory – 12–0 vs Liverpool Stanley (4 October 1890)[185]  
  Record European victory – 7–0 vs Schalke 04, UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (12 March 2019); 7–0 vs RB Leipzig UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (14 March 2023)[186]  
  Record European defeat – 0–4 vs Barcelona, UEFA Champions League group stage (19 October 2016)[187]  
  Highest home attendance – 84,569 vs Stoke City, FA Cup sixth round (3 March 1934)[g][188]  
  Most league appearances – 561 + 3 sub, Alan Oakes, 1958–76[189]  
  Most European appearances – 59 + 16 sub, Fernandinho, 2013–22  
  Most appearances overall – 676 + 4 sub, Alan Oakes, 1958–76[189]  
  ^ The following managers have all won at least one major trophy with Manchester City (totals include competitive matches only). Cup matches won or lost on penalties are classified as draws.[118]  
  ^ Pellegrini's drawn games include one cup match won on penalties.  
  ^ Guardiola's drawn games include six cup matches won and two lost on penalties.  
  ^ City also won the FA Community Shield that season, leading to some term the achievement as the quadruple, although this is incorrect, since the true quadruple includes the three major domestic competitions plus a major European title.  
  ^ By winning the title in 2021, City effectively made it a four-peat.  
  Bibliography  
  Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4.  
  Gardner, Peter (1970). The Manchester City Football Book No. 2. London: Stanley Paul. ISBN 0-09-103280-6.  
  Inglis, Simon (1987). The Football Grounds of Great Britain (2nd ed.). London: Collins Willow. ISBN 0-00-218249-1.  
  James, Gary (2002). Manchester: The Greatest City. Polar Publishing. ISBN 1-899538-09-7.  
  James, Gary (2005). The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame. Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61282-1.  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  James, Gary (2008). Manchester – A Football History. Halifax: James Ward. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5.  
  Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8.  
  Rowlands, Alan (2005). Trautmann: The Biography. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-491-4.  
  Tossell, David (2008). Big Mal: The High Life and Hard Times of Malcolm Allison, Football Legend. Edinburgh: Mainstream. ISBN 978-1-84596-478-8.  
  Wallace, David (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58. Leigh: King of the Kippax. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1.  
  Ward, Andrew (1984). The Manchester City Story. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 0-907969-05-4.  
  References  
  ^ "Cityzens at Home". ManCity.com. Manchester City FC. Archived from the original on 2 May 2021. Retrieved 31 May 2021.  
  ^ "Cityzens". ManCity.com. Manchester City FC. Archived from the original on 16 May 2023. Retrieved 16 May 2023.  
  ^ "England 1937/38". league table from RSSSF. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016. Retrieved 29 December 2005.  
  ^ Rowlands, Trautmann – The Biography, pp. 178–184  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 27–36  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 37–56  
  ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, pp. 13–22  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, pp. 410–420  
  ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 68  
  ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4. p. 177  
  ^ David Clayton, Everything Under the Blue Moon (Mainstream Publishing, 2002), 21  
  ^ "City Greats go into Hall of Fame". mancity.com. (Manchester City Football Club). 16 September 2009. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.  
  ^ "Players". mancity.com. Archived from the original on 26 April 2023. Retrieved 20 July 2022.  
  ^ "Managers". mcfcstats.com. Archived from the original on 29 September 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2006.  
  ^ "FA Cup preview". ESPN Star article. Archived from the original on 19 December 2007. Retrieved 24 September 2009. (archive.org mirror)  
  ^ "Typical City!". Unofficial supporters homepage. Archived from the original on 11 January 2006. Retrieved 25 March 2006.  
  ^ Wallace, Dave (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58. Leigh: King of the Kippax. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1. page ix  
  ^ "The Inflatables Craze". Manchester City Football Club Supporters' Homepage. Archived from the original on 23 April 1999. Retrieved 30 December 2005.  
  ^ "Rivalry Uncovered!" (PDF). The Football Fans Census. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2013. Retrieved 3 December 2020.  
  ^ Taylor, Daniel (10 April 2009). "Wardle quits City". The Guardian. UK. Archived from the original on 7 November 2011. Retrieved 28 August 2008.  
  ^ "曼城母公司收购四川九牛获官方宣布". Sina.com. 20 February 2019. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019. Retrieved 20 February 2019.  
  ^ Inglis, The Football Grounds of Great Britain, p62  
  ^ "Club History". Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2016. Retrieved 19 April 2017.  
  ^ "1904 Manchester City". Match report at fa-cupfinals.co.uk. FA-CupFinals.co.uk. Archived from the original on 20 July 2009. Retrieved 23 September 2009.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p524  
  ^ a b James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 155  
  ^ "Sergio Agüero". Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 16 February 2018. Retrieved 17 February 2018.  
  ^ Clayton, Everything Under the Blue Moon, p. 112.  
  This audio file was created from a revision of this article dated 21 May 2007 (2007-05-21), and does not reflect subsequent edits.  
  Manchester City FC  
  Much like their Mancunian rivals, Manchester City have seen many highs during their colorful existence. With First Division/Premier League titles, FA Cups, League Cups and European Cup trohies, City stand tall as one of the most successful English football clubs of all time. Still, their history contains more than enough lows to even it up; for example, City are still the only English champions to be relegated the very next season.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1880 Country: England City: Manchester  
  Home grounds  
  Clowes Street (1880-1881) Kirkmanshulme Cricket Ground (1881-1882) Queens Road (1882-1884) Pink Bank Lane (1884-1887) Hyde Park (1887-1923) Maine Road (1923-2003) Etihad Stadium (2003-)  
  Main trophies  
  First Division/Premier League: 9 FA Cup: 7 League Cup: 6 Champions League: 1 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup: 1  
  Prominent players  
  Billy Meredith, Bert Trautmann, Tony Book, Eric Brook, Colin Bell, Francis Lee, Mike Summerbee, Bert Trautmann, Colin Bell, Richard Dunne, Trevor Francis, Niall Quinn, Uwe Rösler, Robinho, Joe Hart, David Silva, Carloz Tévez, Sergio Agüero, Kevin De Bruyne  
  Club records  
  Most games played: Eric Brook (178) Top goalscorer: Alan Oakes (682)  
  The 1904 FA Cup champs team.  
  History  
  The club was formed in 1880, under the name of St. Mark's, after an initiative by Arthur Connell (the rector of St Mark's Church) and his daughter, Anna Connell. After calling them self Gorton FC and Ardwick AFC for shorter periods, they would change their name to Manchester City in 1894. This coincides with some financial troubles that eventually led to restructuring of the club. The name change – combined with moving to the spacious grounds of Hyde Road a couple of years later – saw Manchester City become the most popular club in the city, with an enthusiastic fan base that followed them wherever they went. This rise in stature led to the club earning promotion to the First Division in 1899. Shortly after City had claimed their first trophy in 1904 (FA Cup), seventeen of their players were suspended due to allegations of financial misconduct; this led to the club's star player, Billy Meredith, moving across town to United, where he later won two league titles. In 1923, the club moved to Maine Road due to a fire that had destroyed the main stand at Hyde Road. In 1934, City returned to the path of success by winning their second FA Cup. Along the way, the club broke a record for highest attendance in a single game – which stands to this day – with 84,569 home fans gathering at Maine Road for a sixth round match against Stoke City. Three years later, City took home a First Division trophy in style, by scoring over 100 goals during the course of the season. Nevertheless, they were relegated the following season, which was the first time a reigning champion team were demoted.  
  Decline  
  This was followed by a long period of decline. With only a single FA Cup in the next three decades and attendance slowly dwindling, it was high time for changes. After Joe Mercer was appointed as manager in 1965, the club entered a hot streak; during his six years in charge, City won a First Division title, both English Cups and a Cup Winners' Cup. The post-Mercer period saw the club win another League Cup in 1976 before succumbing to another long spell of mediocrity. The return to top football in England started in the season 1998-99. After a dramatic play-off match against Gillingham, City succeeded to climb from Second Division to the First Division. The team managed to go directly through the Division One to the Premier. After relegation from Premier League, they would the next season win First Division by ten points ahead of West Bromwich. And after that, Manchester City has established them self as a Premier League team. For many years, Maine Road was City's home stadium, but in 2003 City of Manchester Stadium was built with a much bigger capacity.  
  New triumphant era  
  A takeover by the Abu Dhabi billionaire Sheikh Mansour in 2008 signaled a new and triumphant era. Now one of the richest clubs in the world, City immediately started getting busy on the transfer market, acquiring many big-name signings for record fees. The five years following Mansour's take over the club spent over £500 millions on players. The Abu Dhabi influence was also displayed by the decision to change the name of the home stadium to Etihad Stadium in 2011. Man City line up 2011 FA Cup final v. Stoke (1-0). This shopping spree saw the club relive their glory years, winning Premier League, one FA Cup and League Cup titles in the period that followed. A high point was the league victory in 2017-2018 season when City became the first team ever in Premier League to collect 100 points in one season. City made also a new record in consecutive league wins (18).  
  The 19 points difference from the first to the second team was something completely new for a league known as the most competitive in the game.  
  By Martin Wahl  
  Logo  
  Manchester City has made use of three dissimilar logos. The first version was abandon in 1960, but used again for a shorter period. The second design, introduced in the 1960s, would return as the logo in 2016 replacing the logo with the eagle behind the shield, which had been used since 1997. The current logo has a ship (symbolizing the historical trade function of the city) in the upper part of the shield and the Red Rose of Lancaster (symbolizing the historic connection with Lancashire) in the lower part of the shield.  
  Manchester City FC timeline  
  1880 The club is established (named as St. Mark's). 1887 The club is renamed as Ardwick AFC. 1887 The club move to the Hyde Park stadium. 1892 Division 2 is established with Ardwick AFC as a founding member. 1893 The Canadian Walter Bowman becomes the first foreign player to play for City and also in the Football League. 1894 The club is renamed as Manchester City. 1896 First FA Cup participation. 1899 The team is promoted to Division 1 for the first time. 1904 Winning their first tournament trophy (FA Cup). 1923 MCFC move to the Main Road stadium. 1937 First time Division 1 champions. 1965 A new logo is adopted. 1970 Winning their first European competition (Cup Winners' Cup). 1979 Steve Daley becomes the first player transferred to the club for a fee over £1 million (£1,450,277). 1997 A new logo is adopted. 2008 The Abu Dhabi United Group becomes the new owner of the club. 2014 Winning their first British Double (the League and the League Cup). 2015 Kevin De Bruyne becomes the first player transferred to the club for a fee over £50 million (£55M). 2023Winning their first Champions League trophy.  
  Records and statistics  
  External links  
  References: http://mcivta.com/history/ https://www.mancity.com/fans-and-community/club/club-history https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manchester_City_FC Simon Kuper and Stefan Szymanski, Soccernomics (2014) Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Clegg, The Club (2018) https://spartacus-educational.com/FreligionG.htm Image source: Unknown  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  City went top of the WSL after a comfortable derby victory, inspired by a brilliant performance from Jess Park  
  Live feed  
  Full time: Manchester City 3-1 Manchester United  
  Manchester City go top of the WSL, at least for the next 24 hours, after an ultimately comfortable win in the derby. United were probably the better team at the start and end of the game – but City were vastly superior either side of half-time, particularly the 10-minute spell in which the outstanding Jess Park scored twice and made a third for Bunny Shaw.  
  United deserve credit for their persistence, which was rewarded with an own goal from Kerstin Casparij, but they never really looked like getting back in the game.  
  Sophie Downey’s match report has gone live, so it’s time to put this blog to bed. Thanks for your company – bye!  
  It’s incredible – I don’t think there’s a feeling that comes close to it. I’ve been working really hard and that [a first league goal for City] was the final bit I wanted, and today I managed to get it.  
  We’ve got so much confidence in each other and that shows on the pitch. That really helps me.  
  [On the first goal] It was a brilliant pick out and I just thought, ‘Keep it down, keep it down!' I saw it go in and, yeah, the feeling can’t compare.  
  We’re solely focussed on the league now and today was a very good result. The first 20 minutes were a bit nervy but after that we played well.  
  You can’t score all the time but as long as you’re working for the team, good things can happen. [On her goal] Me and Jess work a lot in training and we demand a lot of each other. It was similar to the Chelsea goal.  
  Last year I scored a lot of goals but there was another level for me to go to. I watch a lot of videos with Shaun [Goater] and we look at certain movements I could make to create space either for me or my teammates.  
  Full time: Manchester City 3-1 Manchester United  
  Manchester City go top of the WSL, at least for the next 24 hours, after an ultimately comfortable win in the derby. United were probably the better team at the start and end of the game – but City were vastly superior either side of half-time, particularly the 10-minute spell in which the outstanding Jess Park scored twice and made a third for Bunny Shaw.  
  United deserve credit for their persistence, which was rewarded with an own goal from Kerstin Casparij, but they never really looked like getting back in the game.  
  90+9 min Shaw misses a decent chance after good play from Fowler, and that’s the end of that.  
  90+4 min Le Tissier’s long ball into the box is helped by on by the header of Turner and claimed comfortably by Keating. City are always there.  
  90 min City have weathered the storm and are going top of the WSL table for the next 24 hours at least.  
  88 min: City substitution Esme Morgan replaces Leila Ouahabi, who made the first goal and had an excellent duel with Geyse.  
  87 min Zelem’s corner leads to a desperate scramble in the City area. Le Tissier scoops the ball towards goal and eventually Williams is penalised for handball.  
  86 min: United substitution Melvine Malard comes on for Toone, who had a disappointing day.  
  85 min Garcia controls a long ball superbly, Cruyff-turns Angeldal and finds Toone on the edge of the area to her left. Toone cuts inside and curls wide of the far post.  
  84 min: City substitution As the attendance of 40,086 is announced, Filippa Angeldal comes on for Laura Coombs.  
  82 min This is United’s best spell of the game, by a distance, and City have been temporarily reduced to booting the ball anywhere.  
  80 min Geyse wriggles away from Coombs on the right and drives a cross that is crucially cleared by Kennedy. City look, if not nervous, then at least a bit uncomfortable.  
  78 min Both players are on their feet. It was an accidental collision off the ball when the original corner was cleared to the edge of the area.  
  77 min The corner leads to a clash of heads between Williams and Greenwood, and the referee blows the whistle a split-second before Geyse smashes a very good chance over the bar.  
  76 min Geyse wins a corner for United, who could make life exceedingly interesting by getting a second goal.  
  75 min Shaw has an immediate chance to make it 4-1, dragging wide of the near post from a tightish angle on the left side of the area.  
  United will feel they’ve earned that with a determined spell. After a longish spell of possession in the City half, Toone played in the overlapping Bluindell on the left. Her cross took a big deflection off the stretching Casparij and wrongfooted Keating at the near post.  
  GOAL! Man City 3-1 Man Utd (Casparij og 74)  
  72 min The corner is played short to Blundell, whose cross isn’t held by Keating. She gets away with it.  
  71 min Garcia runs Casparij to win another corner. United have found a bit of energy from somewhere.  
  70 min Geyse runs at Ouahabi to win a corner for United, who are having a decent spell.  
  69 min Zelem wins the ball just outside the City area after a good press from United. Garcia has a couple of shots blocked and City break through Fowler, whose long-range shot is straight at Earps.  
  67 min Keating springs from her line to dive at the feet of Williams, who was running onto a loose ball in the area. Good goalkeeping.  
  66 min After good play by Fowler, Mannion does well to block Coombs’ shot from the edge of the area.  
  64 min City play through the United press until Fowler spins Turner and is pulled back. That might have been a yellow card. After an even first 30-35 minutes, the game is painfully one-sided now.  
  60 min Hemp plays a smooth one-two with Ouahabi and crosses deep to Shaw, who heads over from four yards. She couldn’t get over the ball.  
  58 min Those early chances for Geyse and Parris seem a long time ago. United’s fragile confidence was shattered by those goals either side of half-time.  
  57 min: Man Utd substitutions Riviere has admitted defeat, which makes sense with an FA Cup semi-final on the horizon. Aoife Mannion replaces her and Rachel Williams comes on for Nikita Parris.  
  55 min Play resumes with United down to 10 for the time being. In fact Riviere is coming back on, though she isn’t moving brilliantly.  
  54 min Riviere is being helped to her feet, though she won’t be able to continue.  
  52 min Riviere slips while trying to change direction and stays down. She looks in a lot of pain.  
  50 min Fowler’s second corner bounces kindly for Hemp, whose snapshot hits Geyse and goes behind for another corner.  
  49 min Fowler’s inswinging corner is punched away the backpedalling Earps. That wasn’t a million miles from going straight into the net.  
  49 min We know how important goal difference could be in the title race, so City are unlikely to settle for three goals. Fowler wins another corner on the right…  
  48 min What a game Jess Park is having – two goals and an assist now, and the assist was arguably the best of the lot.  
  Bunny Shaw has scored after 30 seconds of the second half! Park was too strong for Zelem in midfield and played a marvellous reverse pass to put Shaw through on goal. Le Tissier tried to challenge from the side but bounced off Shaw, who had loads of time to calmly pass the ball into the corner.  
  It’s her 68th goal for City, which makes Shaw the club’s all-time leading goalscorer.  
  GOAL! Man City 3-0 Man Utd (Shaw 46)  
  Half time: Man City 2-0 Man Utd  
  City are in control of the derby thanks to a pair of volleys from Jess Park. United started well, with Geyse particularly dangerous on the right, but City slowly wore them down as the half progressed.  
  The first goal should have been disallowed for offside, though City will point out that Hannah Blundell probably should have been sent off at 0-0.  
  It was another volley, though this was much simpler. Fowler took the corner short to Casparij, got the ball back and gave to Hasegawa in space. Her deep, angled cross from the right was headed back across goal by Kennedy, and Park quicker than Le Tissier to volley past Earps from close range.  
  GOAL! Man City 2-0 Man Utd (Park 45)  
  44 min Fowler’s cross from the right deflects onto the roof of the net. United need half-time because City are finding a lot more space now.  
  41 min The resulting corner, taken by Zelem, is headed across goal and wide by Le Tissier.  
  40 min: Good save by Keating! The game has come to alive. Geyse rolls Ouahabi on the right and smashes an angry shot from a very tight angle. Keating flies to her left to beat it round the near post.  
  39 min: Shaw has a goal disallowed! This time the flag does go up as Shaw stabs a loose ball past Earps from four yards. She was miles offside so there’s no controversy that time.  
  Manchester United  
  Follow Manchester UnitedFollowing  
  Follow Manchester United  
  close panel  
  You are now following Manchester United  
  Latest updates from your Sport topics will appear in My Sport in the BBC Sport App and in a collection on the BBC homepage.  
  Latest updates  
  'If you're good enough, you're old enough'published at 17:06  
  17:06  
  We asked if it would be the right call to take Kobbie Mainoo to Euro 2024 after the Manchester United midfielder shone against Belgium on Tuesday.  
  Here is a snapshot of your comments, with most of you keen to see him don the Three Lions shirt in Germany:  
  Ben: If you're good enough, you're old enough. The kid clearly has the temperament, the skill and the drive to help England win football games. Why would you not include him?  
  Scott: He should go. Play as many minutes as Gareth Southgate sees fit in the group stages. If he performs well, play him for a few minutes in the knockouts. As long as he comes back fit for United...  
  Christine: Kobbie should go to the Euros - he is a fantastic young talent. He is like a Paul Scholes and Roy Keane rolled into one, with a splash of Zinedine Zidane. One day, he will win the Ballon d'Or. Trouble is, Southgate probably won't take him and that will be a mistake.  
  Steve: Some players need protecting and introducing slowly, to limit weight of expectation. Others, like Ryan Giggs, Lee Sharpe, the Class of 92 and Marcus Rashford, are ready to step up because they have the right temperament and maturity. Mainoo seems to fit the latter. He was sublime against Belgium. He was fluid and forward-thinking and his link-up with Jude Bellingham, Phil Foden and Jarrod Bowen was excellent. He is better than the alternatives already.  
  Kevin: My biggest concern is that he may get injured. He never backed down on Tuesday, to his credit, but took some hard knocks. I'd rather he doesn't go this time - not that he isn't good enough, but let him grow, develop and mature a bit more first. He could be a great player.  
  Iain: Mainoo should be cosseted by the club in the same way that they looked after Giggs as a teenager. United have a real reputation for bringing on well-grounded teenagers and dropping Kobbie into the glare of the Euros would be a mistake.  
  'If Southgate becomes manager, I will support someone else'published at 16:08  
  16:08  
  On the latest episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast, the team discuss Manchester United's recent links to Gareth Southgate, with host Joe McGrath saying the England manager "has no style of football".  
  Brentford v Man Utd: Pick of the statspublished at 14:50  
  14:50  
  Brentford have lost seven of their past nine league meetings with Manchester United, but they did win this fixture 4-0 last season.  
  United's seven league visits to Brentford have produced 30 goals, an average of 4.3 per game. Both of their top-flight defeats at the Bees have been by a 4-0 scoreline (October 1936 and August 2022).  
  Erik ten Hag's side have won just one of their past eight Premier League away games against London sides, and have lost four of their past five.  
  Only the bottom two sides, Burnley and Sheffield United, have lost more Premier League games than Brentford this season. Since a three-game winning run in October/November, the Bees have won just three of their past 18.  
  United have won more games by a one-goal margin - 12 of their 15 victories - than any other side in the Premier League this season.  
  'I know how hard it can be when there is clamour' - Bellingham on Mainoopublished at 11:13  
  11:13  
  Real Madrid midfielder Jude Bellingham was asked about the performance of Manchester United's Kobbie Mainoo on Tuesday, after the 18-year-old made his first senior England start in the 2-2 draw with Belgium.  
  Bellingham, 20, netted the leveller late on at Wembley and has experienced similar media attention in the past, when he burst on to the international scene in 2020 at the age of 17.  
  "He was good tonight," said Bellingham to Channel 4 when asked about Mainoo's performance.  
  "I know how hard it can be when there is there is clamour and people put pressure on you.  
  "He is a brilliant player and I am sure he is going to have a great career at Manchester United, and hopefully for England as well."  
  Do you want Mainoo to go to Euro 2024?published at 09:41  
  09:41  
  He went on to say the Manchester United midfielder is "almost on the plane" for Gareth Southgate's Euro 2024 squad.  
  But would that be the right thing for an 18-year-old who has fewer than 25 senior appearances to his name?  
  Would it be better for him to have a summer away from the piercing spotlight of England duty and continue his development quietly at Carrington?  
  Mainoo 'made real case' to be in Euro squadpublished at 09:29  
  09:29  
  A few months ago, only a few people knew the name Kobbie Mainoo. Now, the 18-year-old is in the mix to play for England at Euro 2024.  
  The Manchester United midfielder, who has made only 23 appearances in his first full season for the club, now has two senior England caps to his name.  
  After making his debut as a substitute against Brazil, Mainoo was handed a starting place by Gareth Southgate in Tuesday's friendly with Belgium.  
  "You just can't stop being impressed by this young man," said former England goalkeeper Paul Robinson on BBC Radio 5 Live's Football Daily podcast. "He's played less than 25 games for Manchester United but he's had an impact on Southgate and has been promoted into the first team."  
  Aged 18 years and 342 days, Mainoo became the third-youngest United player to start a game for England, behind Duncan Edwards(18y 183d) and Marcus Rashford (18y 209d).  
  "Quite often from an international point of view, we're guilty of promoting players too young and they don't even make it off the bench," added Robinson. "This isn't the case with Mainoo.  
  "He's come into the side and straight into the starting line-up. There might be players missing through injury but he's made a real case to be included in the Euro squad.  
  "He adds versatility to the midfield and he looked calm and comfortable with the ball."  
  Gossip: Man Utd consider Toney and Gomespublished at 07:52  
  07:52  
  Meanwhile, United have identified Wolves' 23-year-old Brazil midfielder Joao Gomes as a replacement for compatriot Casemiro, 32. (Sport - in Spanish), external  
  Manchester United would bring in England's full coaching staff if they appoint Gareth Southgate as manager in the summer. (Sun), external  
  But the club also want to speak to Wolves manager Gary O'Neil about a role among a new coaching set-up at Old Trafford. (ESPN), external  
  Mainoo set for first England startpublished at 13:23 26 March  
  13:23 26 March  
  Alex Howell BBC Sport football news reporter  
  Manchester United midfielder Kobbie Mainoo is set to start for England against Belgium at Wembley on Tuesday.  
  Mainoo, 18, made his debut from the bench against Brazil on Saturday.  
  England have limited options in the deeper midfield areas and manager Gareth Southgate has referenced that when speaking to the media this week.  
  Mainoo has made 23 appearances in his first full season for United, scoring two goals.  
  The three things United need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 12:23 26 March  
  12:23 26 March  
  Alex Turk Fan writer  
  Manchester United have endured a disappointing season compared with the success of Erik ten Hag's maiden campaign.  
  But, to finish on a high and ensure the first full season of the Sir Jim Ratcliffe era is given the best chance of succeeding, three things need to happen between now and the summer:  
  Seal three key appointments  
  A compensation package must be agreed with Newcastle United to ensure Dan Ashworth starts his sporting director role this summer.  
  Jason Wilcox should also be in place as technical director, alongside a performance director.  
  Win the FA Cup  
  United have a great chance to ensure that thrilling 4-3 win over Liverpool was part of an FA Cup-winning run.  
  Lifting a 13th - potentially in the second successive Manchester derby final - would be the sweetest of conclusions.  
  Retain Champions League status  
  That said, that domestic trophy did not save Louis van Gaal from the sack in 2016 when he failed to qualify for the Champions League.  
  It's often too huge a financial blow to go unpunished. Ten Hag needs to finish in the top four (or potentially the top five).  
  'Happy to put him on at any moment' - Southgate on Mainoopublished at 11:32 26 March  
  11:32 26 March  
  England boss Gareth Southgate says Kobbie Mainoo is ready to start for England after making his international debut against Brazil on Saturday.  
  The 18-year-old has been a shining light for Manchester United this season and received a late call-up for the Three Lions after originally being named in the under-21 squad for this window.  
  Before England host Belgium on Tuesday, Southgate said he has already demonstrated his faith in the teenager.  
  "We put him in the team as the game went on the other day - when it was 0-0 against Brazil," said Southgate. "That would suggest we would be happy to put him on the pitch at any moment.  
  "We will be mindful of how quickly we go with a young player. Part of the opportunity is scarcity of options in that area of the pitch - the other part is he is playing extremely well and developing extremely well with his club.  
  "He has settled into our group with no problems at all and he looks completely at home."  
  'I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate'published at 09:12 26 March  
  09:12 26 March  
  BBC Radio Manchester's Gaz Drinkwater spoke to the The Devils' Advocate podcast about United's reported interest in Gareth Southgate as their next manager: "I don't believe any of the reports - I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate. This is me coming from a logic standpoint.  
  "Sir Jim Ratcliffe is going to want to make decisions that unite the fanbase and bringing in Southgate as manager would not be that decision.  
  "I admire someone who is going out and making decisions based on what he and his team thinks is right and not really caring what certain fans think. When we appointed Jose [Mourinho], [Louis] Van Gaal, [Erik] Ten Hag, everyone was happy with that. [David] Moyes was the only one that people weren't sure.  
  "I don't see a style of play [with Southgate]. I think he's the sort of manager that you bring in to a fractured dressing room to try and unite everyone. I don't think United's dressing room is as fractured as people think."  
  Gossip: Red Devils would prefer Frank to Southgate published at 07:59 26 March  
  07:59 26 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Brentford manager Thomas Frank to take over from Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford in the summer, not England boss Gareth Southgate. (Football Transfers), external  
  However, according to other reports, co-owner Sir Jim Ratcliffe and Ineos are planning for Ten Hag to be in charge at United next season, but are developing a strategy to be able to move quickly should they decide to replace him. (inews), external  
  Meanwhile, Manchester United will prioritise a deal for Crystal Palace's French winger Michael Olise, 22, this summer over PSV attacker Johan Bakayoko (Team talk), external  
  Finally, United have decided against making Morocco midfielder Sofyan Amrabat's move from Fiorentina permanent for £17m. AC Milan are monitoring the 27-year-old. (Calciomercato - in Italian), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  Could Southgate become the next United boss?published at 17:48 25 March  
  17:48 25 March  
  A new episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast is available to listen to on BBC Sounds.  
  In this week's show, after some reports that Gareth Southgate could replace Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford, the team discuss whether that would be a good move for the England boss and the club.  
  Would Euro success open Old Trafford door for Southgate?published at 16:53 25 March  
  16:53 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and issues arising during the international break.  
  James asked: Would Euros success or failure be more likely to nudge Gareth Southgate towards Old Trafford?  
  Phil replied: First of all we have to stress... Southgate, as yet, has expressed no concrete view on his England future after Euro 2024.  
  As for Manchester United, if England won Euro 2024 then of course this would improve his chances of landing a big club job, such as the one at Old Trafford, if he wanted it.  
  I would hazard a guess that if England do not win Euro 2024 then the possibility would recede.  
  'Inconsistency has been a killer' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:00 25 March  
  13:00 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Rob: Manchester United have been woeful this season. I've been watching the capitulation when things have gone against them and seeing some matches when some players just don't seem bothered. Rashford looks uninterested sometimes and then, frustratingly, after all of it, when it's so obvious that it's happening, Ten Hag comes out and defends them.  
  Richard: Style of play is poor, in fact there doesn't appear to be one. I don't expect United to win every trophy they are in or challenge for the league at this moment, but I do wish the team would get me off my seat by playing exciting football and scoring lots of goals. It is so frustrating watching United - it is boring at the minute.  
  Iain: Inconsistency has been a killer for United this year, especially at the beginning of the season. There are plenty of factors that have brought this about: injuries to last year's key players, squad depth/true quality issues, too much spent on too few players and a distracting sale process. Hopefully, the new structure will help Erik next year.  
  'I am still unconvinced by Maguire' for Englandpublished at 11:22 25 March  
  11:22 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and those players on international duty.  
  Vicky Gaskin asked: Are you surprised at just how loyal Gareth Southgate is to Harry Maguire? He looked shaky again against Brazil on Saturday and he’s had limited game time at Manchester United this season.  
  Phil replied: No, I’m not surprised, Vicky, because Gareth Southgate is very loyal to those he believes have delivered for him - although I am still unconvinced by Maguire for this summer's Euros.  
  Maguire made a passionate defence of his England record last week and he has every right to do that seeing as he played in a team that reached the World Cup semi-final in 2018, the final of Euro 2020 and then the 2022 World Cup quarter-final.  
  I do feel that area might be a weak link at Euro 2024 but at the moment no big alternative jumps out and Southgate is a big fan of Maguire’s partnership with John Stones. He also feels Maguire has never let him down for England and sees no need, at this stage, to consider replacing him.  
  Gossip: Neves and Rabiot on United's radarpublished at 07:38 25 March  
  07:38 25 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Benfica and Portugal midfielder Joao Neves, 19, as one of their summer priorities, but could also move for Juventus' 28-year-old France international Adrien Rabiot as a more affordable option. (Caught Offside), external  
  Manchester City are keeping track of developments concerning Everton centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite, with United, Tottenham and Real Madrid also interested in the 21-year-old. (Mail), external  
  United have been linked with selling Scott McTominay but actually plan to keep the but the club plan to keep the midfielder and give him an improved contract. (Star), external  
  Meanwhile, the Red Devils could try to sign 19-year-old Senegal defender Mikayil Faye from Barcelona in the summer. (Mail), external  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  'Easy wins' for Ratcliffe so farpublished at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  BBC Sport's Simon Stone feels "easy wins" have been achieved by Sir Jim Ratcliffe during his time at Manchester United so far.  
  Stone formed part of the discussion on BBC World Service as Sportsworld delivered a special on whether Ratcliffe can help take United back to the top.  
  "Someone said to me 'Sir Jim Ratcliffe is doing all the right things – but he’s not had to do anything yet,'" said Stone.  
  "What he’s done are easy wins, talking to the fans, but the Glazers have just not done it. By doing it it gets him ahead of the game. He’s saying all the right things about the stadium and about knocking Liverpool and Manchester City off their perch. Saying them is the easy bit, doing it is a different matter entirely.  
  "To beat Liverpool and Manchester City over a consistent period of time, that is going to mean a lot of good decisions need to be made. A lot of money will need to be spent far more wisely than it was before Ten Hag came in and since he’s been here. That is a massive change at this football club and what Sir Jim Ratcliffe will be judged on."  
  Manchester United have started adapting their teams behind the scenes under Ratcliffe, with Omar Berrada due to arrive from Manchester City as chief executive and Dan Ashworth set to move into a sporting director role.  
  Stone says ultimately, changes to the teams off the field must be accompanied by the execution of decisions and details in real time.  
  "Everything in football, everything, comes down to recruitment," said Stone.  
  "If you don’t have the right players, in the right system, managed by the right person, you will fail."  
  Does Mainoo force his way in?published at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  Will Kobbie Mainoo pounce on "uncertainty" in England's midfield to grab a place at the European Championships?  
  "Time will tell but he’s going to have to play extremely well for Manchester United in the remaining games and convince the manager that he’s going to have that aura plus level of composure and calmness," said pundit Michael Brown.  
  "He’s got everything going for him it’s just whether it’s a little bit early.”  
  'The aura around the stadium has been different' since Ratcliffe arrivedpublished at 15:02 22 March  
  15:02 22 March  
  Manchester United fan and presenter of The United Stand, Beth Tucker, says fans have felt "the positivity on the horizon" since Sir Jim Ratcliffe's takeover.  
  Ratcliffe, who now controls the football operation side of the club, agreed to buy a 25% stake on 24 December 2023 for £1.03bn.  
  "There has definitely been a massive lift since Ratcliffe came into the club, there is no doubt about that," said Tucker on the Sportsworld from BBC World Service.  
  "On the pitch it has been a turbulent season and it has overall been poor, but we have also seen the little glimmers of hope that we can turn it around.  
  "Since Ratcliffe came into the club, the aura around the stadium and within the fan base has been different and I think fans can feel the positivity on the horizon."  
  United are sixth in the Premier League and nine points behind Aston Villa who occupy the fourth and final Champions League place.  
  Red Devils boss Erik ten Hag is yet to win any silverware this season, with his final chance being the FA Cup where they will play Coventry City for a place in a consecutive final.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  England manager Gareth Southgate says he won't speak to any clubs about jobs ahead of Euro 2024.  
  The FA Cup semi-finals schedule has been revealed with Man City and their opponents Chelsea, plus Man Utd and Coventry, finding out when they'll meet at Wembley...  
  Gareth Southgate has been linked with replacing Erik ten Hag at Manchester United this summer - but would he be a good fit at Old Trafford?  
  Gerard Pique has fronted several ventures but having hung up his boots following 18 years at the top of the professional game, he is confident he has backed a winner.  
  Adam Bate on why, for all the off-field distractions, the biggest problem facing Erik ten Hag remains the lack of clarity over the team’s style of play.  
  Kobbie Mainoo and ‘the arrogance of timing’ – former Man Utd coach explains why midfielder appears to have so much time on the ball  
  Erik ten Hag describes the potential of his Man Utd squad as "very high" but tells Sky Sports the key message he is giving to his rising stars…  
  Jadon Sancho's exit puts the spotlight on the struggles of another expensive Man Utd winger but are expectations of Antony as outsized as his fee?  
  Latest updates  
  'If you're good enough, you're old enough'published at 17:06  
  17:06  
  We asked if it would be the right call to take Kobbie Mainoo to Euro 2024 after the Manchester United midfielder shone against Belgium on Tuesday.  
  Here is a snapshot of your comments, with most of you keen to see him don the Three Lions shirt in Germany:  
  Ben: If you're good enough, you're old enough. The kid clearly has the temperament, the skill and the drive to help England win football games. Why would you not include him?  
  Scott: He should go. Play as many minutes as Gareth Southgate sees fit in the group stages. If he performs well, play him for a few minutes in the knockouts. As long as he comes back fit for United...  
  Christine: Kobbie should go to the Euros - he is a fantastic young talent. He is like a Paul Scholes and Roy Keane rolled into one, with a splash of Zinedine Zidane. One day, he will win the Ballon d'Or. Trouble is, Southgate probably won't take him and that will be a mistake.  
  Steve: Some players need protecting and introducing slowly, to limit weight of expectation. Others, like Ryan Giggs, Lee Sharpe, the Class of 92 and Marcus Rashford, are ready to step up because they have the right temperament and maturity. Mainoo seems to fit the latter. He was sublime against Belgium. He was fluid and forward-thinking and his link-up with Jude Bellingham, Phil Foden and Jarrod Bowen was excellent. He is better than the alternatives already.  
  Kevin: My biggest concern is that he may get injured. He never backed down on Tuesday, to his credit, but took some hard knocks. I'd rather he doesn't go this time - not that he isn't good enough, but let him grow, develop and mature a bit more first. He could be a great player.  
  Iain: Mainoo should be cosseted by the club in the same way that they looked after Giggs as a teenager. United have a real reputation for bringing on well-grounded teenagers and dropping Kobbie into the glare of the Euros would be a mistake.  
  'If Southgate becomes manager, I will support someone else'published at 16:08  
  16:08  
  On the latest episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast, the team discuss Manchester United's recent links to Gareth Southgate, with host Joe McGrath saying the England manager "has no style of football".  
  Brentford v Man Utd: Pick of the statspublished at 14:50  
  14:50  
  Brentford have lost seven of their past nine league meetings with Manchester United, but they did win this fixture 4-0 last season.  
  United's seven league visits to Brentford have produced 30 goals, an average of 4.3 per game. Both of their top-flight defeats at the Bees have been by a 4-0 scoreline (October 1936 and August 2022).  
  Erik ten Hag's side have won just one of their past eight Premier League away games against London sides, and have lost four of their past five.  
  Only the bottom two sides, Burnley and Sheffield United, have lost more Premier League games than Brentford this season. Since a three-game winning run in October/November, the Bees have won just three of their past 18.  
  United have won more games by a one-goal margin - 12 of their 15 victories - than any other side in the Premier League this season.  
  'I know how hard it can be when there is clamour' - Bellingham on Mainoopublished at 11:13  
  11:13  
  Real Madrid midfielder Jude Bellingham was asked about the performance of Manchester United's Kobbie Mainoo on Tuesday, after the 18-year-old made his first senior England start in the 2-2 draw with Belgium.  
  Bellingham, 20, netted the leveller late on at Wembley and has experienced similar media attention in the past, when he burst on to the international scene in 2020 at the age of 17.  
  "He was good tonight," said Bellingham to Channel 4 when asked about Mainoo's performance.  
  "I know how hard it can be when there is there is clamour and people put pressure on you.  
  "He is a brilliant player and I am sure he is going to have a great career at Manchester United, and hopefully for England as well."  
  Do you want Mainoo to go to Euro 2024?published at 09:41  
  09:41  
  He went on to say the Manchester United midfielder is "almost on the plane" for Gareth Southgate's Euro 2024 squad.  
  But would that be the right thing for an 18-year-old who has fewer than 25 senior appearances to his name?  
  Would it be better for him to have a summer away from the piercing spotlight of England duty and continue his development quietly at Carrington?  
  Mainoo 'made real case' to be in Euro squadpublished at 09:29  
  09:29  
  A few months ago, only a few people knew the name Kobbie Mainoo. Now, the 18-year-old is in the mix to play for England at Euro 2024.  
  The Manchester United midfielder, who has made only 23 appearances in his first full season for the club, now has two senior England caps to his name.  
  After making his debut as a substitute against Brazil, Mainoo was handed a starting place by Gareth Southgate in Tuesday's friendly with Belgium.  
  "You just can't stop being impressed by this young man," said former England goalkeeper Paul Robinson on BBC Radio 5 Live's Football Daily podcast. "He's played less than 25 games for Manchester United but he's had an impact on Southgate and has been promoted into the first team."  
  Aged 18 years and 342 days, Mainoo became the third-youngest United player to start a game for England, behind Duncan Edwards(18y 183d) and Marcus Rashford (18y 209d).  
  "Quite often from an international point of view, we're guilty of promoting players too young and they don't even make it off the bench," added Robinson. "This isn't the case with Mainoo.  
  "He's come into the side and straight into the starting line-up. There might be players missing through injury but he's made a real case to be included in the Euro squad.  
  "He adds versatility to the midfield and he looked calm and comfortable with the ball."  
  Gossip: Man Utd consider Toney and Gomespublished at 07:52  
  07:52  
  Meanwhile, United have identified Wolves' 23-year-old Brazil midfielder Joao Gomes as a replacement for compatriot Casemiro, 32. (Sport - in Spanish), external  
  Manchester United would bring in England's full coaching staff if they appoint Gareth Southgate as manager in the summer. (Sun), external  
  But the club also want to speak to Wolves manager Gary O'Neil about a role among a new coaching set-up at Old Trafford. (ESPN), external  
  Mainoo set for first England startpublished at 13:23 26 March  
  13:23 26 March  
  Alex Howell BBC Sport football news reporter  
  Manchester United midfielder Kobbie Mainoo is set to start for England against Belgium at Wembley on Tuesday.  
  Mainoo, 18, made his debut from the bench against Brazil on Saturday.  
  England have limited options in the deeper midfield areas and manager Gareth Southgate has referenced that when speaking to the media this week.  
  Mainoo has made 23 appearances in his first full season for United, scoring two goals.  
  The three things United need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 12:23 26 March  
  12:23 26 March  
  Alex Turk Fan writer  
  Manchester United have endured a disappointing season compared with the success of Erik ten Hag's maiden campaign.  
  But, to finish on a high and ensure the first full season of the Sir Jim Ratcliffe era is given the best chance of succeeding, three things need to happen between now and the summer:  
  Seal three key appointments  
  A compensation package must be agreed with Newcastle United to ensure Dan Ashworth starts his sporting director role this summer.  
  Jason Wilcox should also be in place as technical director, alongside a performance director.  
  Win the FA Cup  
  United have a great chance to ensure that thrilling 4-3 win over Liverpool was part of an FA Cup-winning run.  
  Lifting a 13th - potentially in the second successive Manchester derby final - would be the sweetest of conclusions.  
  Retain Champions League status  
  That said, that domestic trophy did not save Louis van Gaal from the sack in 2016 when he failed to qualify for the Champions League.  
  It's often too huge a financial blow to go unpunished. Ten Hag needs to finish in the top four (or potentially the top five).  
  'Happy to put him on at any moment' - Southgate on Mainoopublished at 11:32 26 March  
  11:32 26 March  
  England boss Gareth Southgate says Kobbie Mainoo is ready to start for England after making his international debut against Brazil on Saturday.  
  The 18-year-old has been a shining light for Manchester United this season and received a late call-up for the Three Lions after originally being named in the under-21 squad for this window.  
  Before England host Belgium on Tuesday, Southgate said he has already demonstrated his faith in the teenager.  
  "We put him in the team as the game went on the other day - when it was 0-0 against Brazil," said Southgate. "That would suggest we would be happy to put him on the pitch at any moment.  
  "We will be mindful of how quickly we go with a young player. Part of the opportunity is scarcity of options in that area of the pitch - the other part is he is playing extremely well and developing extremely well with his club.  
  "He has settled into our group with no problems at all and he looks completely at home."  
  'I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate'published at 09:12 26 March  
  09:12 26 March  
  BBC Radio Manchester's Gaz Drinkwater spoke to the The Devils' Advocate podcast about United's reported interest in Gareth Southgate as their next manager: "I don't believe any of the reports - I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate. This is me coming from a logic standpoint.  
  "Sir Jim Ratcliffe is going to want to make decisions that unite the fanbase and bringing in Southgate as manager would not be that decision.  
  "I admire someone who is going out and making decisions based on what he and his team thinks is right and not really caring what certain fans think. When we appointed Jose [Mourinho], [Louis] Van Gaal, [Erik] Ten Hag, everyone was happy with that. [David] Moyes was the only one that people weren't sure.  
  "I don't see a style of play [with Southgate]. I think he's the sort of manager that you bring in to a fractured dressing room to try and unite everyone. I don't think United's dressing room is as fractured as people think."  
  Gossip: Red Devils would prefer Frank to Southgate published at 07:59 26 March  
  07:59 26 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Brentford manager Thomas Frank to take over from Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford in the summer, not England boss Gareth Southgate. (Football Transfers), external  
  However, according to other reports, co-owner Sir Jim Ratcliffe and Ineos are planning for Ten Hag to be in charge at United next season, but are developing a strategy to be able to move quickly should they decide to replace him. (inews), external  
  Meanwhile, Manchester United will prioritise a deal for Crystal Palace's French winger Michael Olise, 22, this summer over PSV attacker Johan Bakayoko (Team talk), external  
  Finally, United have decided against making Morocco midfielder Sofyan Amrabat's move from Fiorentina permanent for £17m. AC Milan are monitoring the 27-year-old. (Calciomercato - in Italian), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  Could Southgate become the next United boss?published at 17:48 25 March  
  17:48 25 March  
  A new episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast is available to listen to on BBC Sounds.  
  In this week's show, after some reports that Gareth Southgate could replace Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford, the team discuss whether that would be a good move for the England boss and the club.  
  Would Euro success open Old Trafford door for Southgate?published at 16:53 25 March  
  16:53 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and issues arising during the international break.  
  James asked: Would Euros success or failure be more likely to nudge Gareth Southgate towards Old Trafford?  
  Phil replied: First of all we have to stress... Southgate, as yet, has expressed no concrete view on his England future after Euro 2024.  
  As for Manchester United, if England won Euro 2024 then of course this would improve his chances of landing a big club job, such as the one at Old Trafford, if he wanted it.  
  I would hazard a guess that if England do not win Euro 2024 then the possibility would recede.  
  'Inconsistency has been a killer' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:00 25 March  
  13:00 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Rob: Manchester United have been woeful this season. I've been watching the capitulation when things have gone against them and seeing some matches when some players just don't seem bothered. Rashford looks uninterested sometimes and then, frustratingly, after all of it, when it's so obvious that it's happening, Ten Hag comes out and defends them.  
  Richard: Style of play is poor, in fact there doesn't appear to be one. I don't expect United to win every trophy they are in or challenge for the league at this moment, but I do wish the team would get me off my seat by playing exciting football and scoring lots of goals. It is so frustrating watching United - it is boring at the minute.  
  Iain: Inconsistency has been a killer for United this year, especially at the beginning of the season. There are plenty of factors that have brought this about: injuries to last year's key players, squad depth/true quality issues, too much spent on too few players and a distracting sale process. Hopefully, the new structure will help Erik next year.  
  'I am still unconvinced by Maguire' for Englandpublished at 11:22 25 March  
  11:22 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and those players on international duty.  
  Vicky Gaskin asked: Are you surprised at just how loyal Gareth Southgate is to Harry Maguire? He looked shaky again against Brazil on Saturday and he’s had limited game time at Manchester United this season.  
  Phil replied: No, I’m not surprised, Vicky, because Gareth Southgate is very loyal to those he believes have delivered for him - although I am still unconvinced by Maguire for this summer's Euros.  
  Maguire made a passionate defence of his England record last week and he has every right to do that seeing as he played in a team that reached the World Cup semi-final in 2018, the final of Euro 2020 and then the 2022 World Cup quarter-final.  
  I do feel that area might be a weak link at Euro 2024 but at the moment no big alternative jumps out and Southgate is a big fan of Maguire’s partnership with John Stones. He also feels Maguire has never let him down for England and sees no need, at this stage, to consider replacing him.  
  Gossip: Neves and Rabiot on United's radarpublished at 07:38 25 March  
  07:38 25 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Benfica and Portugal midfielder Joao Neves, 19, as one of their summer priorities, but could also move for Juventus' 28-year-old France international Adrien Rabiot as a more affordable option. (Caught Offside), external  
  Manchester City are keeping track of developments concerning Everton centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite, with United, Tottenham and Real Madrid also interested in the 21-year-old. (Mail), external  
  United have been linked with selling Scott McTominay but actually plan to keep the but the club plan to keep the midfielder and give him an improved contract. (Star), external  
  Meanwhile, the Red Devils could try to sign 19-year-old Senegal defender Mikayil Faye from Barcelona in the summer. (Mail), external  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  'Easy wins' for Ratcliffe so farpublished at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  BBC Sport's Simon Stone feels "easy wins" have been achieved by Sir Jim Ratcliffe during his time at Manchester United so far.  
  Stone formed part of the discussion on BBC World Service as Sportsworld delivered a special on whether Ratcliffe can help take United back to the top.  
  "Someone said to me 'Sir Jim Ratcliffe is doing all the right things – but he’s not had to do anything yet,'" said Stone.  
  "What he’s done are easy wins, talking to the fans, but the Glazers have just not done it. By doing it it gets him ahead of the game. He’s saying all the right things about the stadium and about knocking Liverpool and Manchester City off their perch. Saying them is the easy bit, doing it is a different matter entirely.  
  "To beat Liverpool and Manchester City over a consistent period of time, that is going to mean a lot of good decisions need to be made. A lot of money will need to be spent far more wisely than it was before Ten Hag came in and since he’s been here. That is a massive change at this football club and what Sir Jim Ratcliffe will be judged on."  
  Manchester United have started adapting their teams behind the scenes under Ratcliffe, with Omar Berrada due to arrive from Manchester City as chief executive and Dan Ashworth set to move into a sporting director role.  
  Stone says ultimately, changes to the teams off the field must be accompanied by the execution of decisions and details in real time.  
  "Everything in football, everything, comes down to recruitment," said Stone.  
  "If you don’t have the right players, in the right system, managed by the right person, you will fail."  
  Does Mainoo force his way in?published at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  Will Kobbie Mainoo pounce on "uncertainty" in England's midfield to grab a place at the European Championships?  
  "Time will tell but he’s going to have to play extremely well for Manchester United in the remaining games and convince the manager that he’s going to have that aura plus level of composure and calmness," said pundit Michael Brown.  
  "He’s got everything going for him it’s just whether it’s a little bit early.”  
  'The aura around the stadium has been different' since Ratcliffe arrivedpublished at 15:02 22 March  
  15:02 22 March  
  Manchester United fan and presenter of The United Stand, Beth Tucker, says fans have felt "the positivity on the horizon" since Sir Jim Ratcliffe's takeover.  
  Ratcliffe, who now controls the football operation side of the club, agreed to buy a 25% stake on 24 December 2023 for £1.03bn.  
  "There has definitely been a massive lift since Ratcliffe came into the club, there is no doubt about that," said Tucker on the Sportsworld from BBC World Service.  
  "On the pitch it has been a turbulent season and it has overall been poor, but we have also seen the little glimmers of hope that we can turn it around.  
  "Since Ratcliffe came into the club, the aura around the stadium and within the fan base has been different and I think fans can feel the positivity on the horizon."  
  United are sixth in the Premier League and nine points behind Aston Villa who occupy the fourth and final Champions League place.  
  Red Devils boss Erik ten Hag is yet to win any silverware this season, with his final chance being the FA Cup where they will play Coventry City for a place in a consecutive final.  
  Manchester United  
  Read the latest Manchester United news, transfer rumours, match reports, fixtures and live scores from the Guardian  
  The Former Manchester United star says his near-30-year silence on subject has been his revenge on the press  
  Scott McTominay has revealed that a conversation a year ago with the Scotland manager, Steve Clarke, ignited his stellar run of form for club and country  
  Manchester United youngster Kobbie Mainoo said he is ‘shocked and happy’ to have emerged as a potential wildcard option in midfield for England  
  Manchester United’s Kobbie Mainoo has been called up to the England squad for the friendlies against Brazil and Belgium  
  Sir Jim Ratcliffe has said Manchester United will not be trying to land superstar signings such as Jude Bellingham or Kylian Mbappé  
  Two Manchester United fans have been arrested in connection with tragedy chanting during Sunday’s FA Cup quarter-final against Liverpool  
  The 4-3 win over Liverpool may not save Erik ten Hag’s job. But it has cemented lasting goodwill  
  Bruno Fernandes said Amad Diallo being sent off after celebrating his winner against Liverpool showed the rule had to change  
  The manager believed his team can ‘beat any opponent’ after their Cup victory while the loss ended Liverpool’s dreams of a quadruple in Jürgen Klopp’s final season  
  Manchester United’s FA Cup quarter-final win over Liverpool shows that sometimes chaos can triumph over structure  
  Amad Diallo scored a dramatic extra-time winner to settle a see-saw quarter-final and book a Wembley date with Coventry City  
  Manchester United moved into the semi-finals of the FA Cup after beating Liverpool 4-3 in extra-time with a last-gasp winner from Amad Diallo  
  Liverpool’s youngsters have kept team on track before FA Cup quarter-final but United have been hampered by absentees  
  The Rise of Manchester United: From Players to Legends, History, and Ferguson’s Legacy  
  Manchester United isn’t just a football club; it’s a global phenomenon with a storied history that’s as thrilling as a last-minute winning goal. From its humble beginnings to becoming one of the most recognizable sports brands worldwide, the Red Devils have captured hearts and sparked debates in every corner of the globe.  
  They’ve seen legendary players grace the pitch at Old Trafford, experienced dramatic triumphs, and endured heart-wrenching defeats. This article dives into the legacy of Manchester United, exploring what makes this club a titan in the world of football. Whether you’re a die-hard fan or simply curious about the buzz that surrounds them, you’re in for a captivating read.  
  The Origins of Manchester United  
  Manchester United’s journey began in 1878 under a different name: Newton Heath LYR Football Club. It was formed by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company’s workers in the Newton Heath area. Initially, the club’s roster consisted mainly of railway workers, who played games against other departments and rail companies.  
  1892 marked the team’s entry into the Football League before undergoing a pivotal transformation in 1902. Financial difficulties led to a name change, and thus, Manchester United emerged, named after the city they proudly represent. This change signified not only a rename but also a rebirth of the club that would go on to conquer the world of football.  
  Under the stewardship of John Henry Davies, a local businessman who invested in the team, Manchester United found their new home at Old Trafford in 1910. Known affectionately as the “Theatre of Dreams,” Old Trafford became a hallowed ground for fans worldwide, creating a fortress for the team’s ambitions.  
  1878: Club founded as Newton Heath LYR F.C.  
  1892: Entered the Football League  
  1902: Name changed to Manchester United  
  1910: Moved to Old Trafford  
  The shift from a works team to a club with aspirations of national dominance set the stage for Manchester United to cultivate a legacy. They began to attract talented players who would lead them to their first major honors, sewing the seeds for a future rich with success and unrivaled glory.  
  Early triumphs paved the way for greater achievements, and the club’s ability to rebound from adversity became a defining characteristic. The resilience and fighting spirit of the team during times of challenge contributed to the ethos of Manchester United, fostering a culture of perseverance that resonates with fans to this day.  
  Manchester United’s evolution continued through the 20th century, setting benchmarks and achieving new milestones. As the club’s stature grew, so did its influence, reaching far beyond the pitch. Each era brought forward new talent and management, propelling Manchester United to its current status as a global powerhouse in football.  
  The Rise of a Footballing Powerhouse  
  Manchester United’s ascent to the pinnacle of football is a saga marked by strategic acquisitions and visionary leadership. As they stepped onto the lush green of Old Trafford, they weren’t just playing on a field; they were crafting a legacy.  
  The team’s transformation into a footballing powerhouse began in earnest during the post-war years. With the appointment of Matt Busby as manager in 1945, the club adopted a philosophy of nurturing young talent, a strategy that would pay dividends in the years to come. Busby’s insistence on attacking football galvanized the team, and the players responded on the pitch with a style that captivated fans.  
  FA Cup Victory in 1948  
  League Titles in 1952, 1956, and 1957  
  These triumphs were not mere flukes; they were the fruits of Busby’s labor, a testament to Manchester United’s growing dominance. Then, the club faced a severe test: the Munich air disaster in 1958, which claimed the lives of eight players. The tragedy could have decimated any team, but Manchester United refused to yield.  
  Rebuilding after Munich, the club became a symbol of resilience. Under Busby’s leadership, they reached the pinnacle of European glory by winning the European Cup in 1968, becoming the first English team to do so. This crowning achievement was a clear signal to the world: Manchester United was a colossus in the making.  
  The Red Devils’ ethos of blending youth with experience continued. Legendary players like George Best, Bobby Charlton, and Denis Law became synonymous with United’s indomitable spirit. They played with flair and courage, setting the stage for the modern era of football and immortalizing their names in the annals of the game.  
  As the torch passed to subsequent managers and players, Manchester United’s legacy continued to thrive. Under Sir Alex Ferguson’s epoch-defining reign, the club solidified its status as a behemoth of the sport, adapting to the modern game while staying true to its roots. United’s brand of football—aggressive, relentless, and tactically astute—propelled them to new heights.  
  Premier League Victories  
  UEFA Champions League Trophies  
  Global Fanbase  
  Legendary Players Who Shaped the Club’s Identity  
  At Manchester United, certain players have become more than just athletes; they’ve etched their names into the very fabric of the club’s history. George Best, with his extraordinary dribbling ability and pop star charisma, was as influential off the pitch as he was on it. Best’s legacy is a testament to the flair and creativity that became hallmarks of Manchester United’s playing style.  
  Bobby Charlton survived the Munich air disaster and became the embodiment of the club’s resilience. As a Ballon d’Or winner and England’s long-standing top scorer, Charlton’s name is often synonymous with leadership and grace under pressure. His tenure at Manchester United laid a foundation of excellence that players still strive to match today.  
  Coupled with these icons was Denis Law, the Scottish striker known for his goal-scoring prowess and enthusiastic celebrations. Law’s agility and nose for goals helped to solidify Manchester United’s reputation as an offensive powerhouse. These players weren’t just contributing on the field; they were forging an identity that would define the club for generations.  
  Outside of these illustrious figures, there were numerous others who played significant roles in the club’s narrative. Eric Cantona brought a galvanizing presence in the 1990s, and his influence extended beyond scoring goals to inspiring a winning mentality within the squad. Cantona’s iconic upturned collar and audacious plays left an indelible mark on the club’s culture.  
  Years later, players like David Beckham with his pinpoint crossing and free-kick mastery, and Cristiano Ronaldo with his blistering pace and goal-scoring records, have continued the tradition of excellence. They’ve not only contributed to the club’s silverware but also enhanced its global reputation.  
  At the heart of Manchester United’s DNA is the belief in producing or attracting players who aren’t just talented but are symbols of the club’s ethos. These legends personify not just skill and success but also the club’s global allure and sustained relevance in the competitive world of football.  
  Iconic Moments in Manchester United’s History  
  Manchester United is not just a football club; it’s a repository of historical moments that have shaped not only the club’s destiny but the landscape of football worldwide. Throughout its illustrious history, the club has experienced a series of pivotal events that have become ingrained in the memory of its ardent fans.  
  One such moment occurred in 1999, when Manchester United secured an unprecedented Treble — winning the Premier League, the FA Cup, and the UEFA Champions League in the same season. The Champions League final against Bayern Munich stands out vividly, where United staged a remarkable comeback, scoring two goals in injury time to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. This triumph etched the names of players like Ole Gunnar Solskjær and Teddy Sheringham into club lore, and it remains one of the most dramatic conclusions in football history.  
  Another memorable moment was in 2008, as Manchester United once again claimed European glory by winning the Champions League. They defeated Chelsea in a nail-biting penalty shootout in Moscow, with the images of Edwin van der Sar’s decisive save and the celebrations that followed becoming emblematic of the club’s fighting spirit and resilience.  
  The theatre of dreams, Old Trafford, has borne witness to numerous such iconic moments. For instance, in 1992, it was the stage for Eric Cantona’s debut, a player who would become a catalyst for the team’s dominance in the 90s. His flair and unique playing style resonated with the United spirit, making every match an event not to be missed.  
  “The Manchester United Way” is not just a phrase; it’s reflected in the incredible comebacks, the cultivation of homegrown talent, and the pursuit of greatness. The club’s history is a testimony to its enduring legacy, and these iconic moments contribute to the narrative that captivates millions around the globe.  
  The Managerial Legacy of Sir Alex Ferguson  
  Sir Alex Ferguson, a name that resonates across the football community, is often considered the archetype of managerial success. Appointed as Manchester United manager in 1986, Ferguson’s tenure lasted an extraordinary 26 years, during which he transformed the club into a footballing juggernaut. His leadership was characterized by an unmatched ability to adapt to the changing tides of the sport, ensuring that the team stayed ahead of its competitors both domestically and in Europe.  
  Sir Alex is renowned for developing talent through the club’s youth system, an approach that saw the rise of the iconic ‘Class of 92’ — a cohort that included David Beckham, Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt, and the Neville brothers. This focus on nurturing young players cemented the team’s future and created a lineage of homegrown stars.  
  Under Sir Alex, Manchester United’s style of play evolved but always centered around attacking football, a commitment to entertain the fans, and a never-say-die attitude. His influence also extended off the pitch, manifesting in the club’s commercial growth and global brand expansion.  
  The Scotsman’s trophy haul at United is nothing short of legendary:  
  13 Premier League titles  
  5 FA Cups  
  4 League Cups  
  2 Champions League trophies  
  Additionally, his teams often painted the perfect picture of resilience, famously dubbed as ‘Fergie Time’, referring to late goals scored during added time causing dramatic turnarounds in matches.  
  Ferguson’s departure in 2013 left big shoes to fill, with successors facing the daunting task of continuing his legacy. The club has since struggled to replicate the consistent success of the Ferguson era, underscoring just how integral he was to the fabric of Manchester United. His influence, however, remains palpable through the standards he set and the enduring winning mentality that he instilled within the club culture. The continuous search for a manager who can wield the same authority and produce a semblance of Ferguson’s achievements speaks volumes about the benchmark he set.  
  Conclusion  
  Manchester United stands as a testament to footballing excellence, its legacy woven through decades of spectacular victories and legendary figures. The club’s commitment to nurturing talent and embracing visionary leadership has not only carved out a formidable reputation on the pitch but also built an iconic global brand. Fans across the world cherish the rich history and the thrilling moments that define the Red Devils, a narrative that continues to inspire and captivate. As they look to the future, the challenge remains to uphold the high standards set by Sir Alex Ferguson, ensuring that Manchester United’s storied past is a prologue to even greater achievements ahead.  
  How did Manchester United become a footballing powerhouse?  
  Manchester United became a footballing powerhouse through strategic acquisitions and visionary leadership.  
  Who are some of the legendary players associated with Manchester United?  
  Some legendary players associated with Manchester United include George Best, Bobby Charlton, and Denis Law.  
  What is Manchester United’s philosophy when it comes to players?  
  Manchester United’s philosophy is rooted in producing or attracting players who embody the club’s ethos and contribute to its sustained relevance.  
  What are some iconic moments in Manchester United’s history?  
  Some iconic moments in Manchester United’s history include their Treble win in 1999 and their Champions League victory in 2008.  
  Who was the influential manager of Manchester United?  
  The influential manager of Manchester United was Sir Alex Ferguson.  
  What was Sir Alex Ferguson’s leadership style?  
  Sir Alex Ferguson’s leadership style was characterized by his ability to adapt to changing tides and focus on developing young talent through the club’s youth system.  
  What is the legacy left by Sir Alex Ferguson?  
  The legacy left by Sir Alex Ferguson includes commercial growth and global brand expansion for Manchester United.  
  Why has it been difficult to fill the void left by Sir Alex Ferguson?  
  It has been difficult to fill the void left by Sir Alex Ferguson because he set a high benchmark for future managers.  
  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok  
  Manchester United  
  English football club  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Also known as: Man U, Manchester United Football Club, Newton Heath LYR, the Red Devils  
  What is Manchester United?  
  Manchester United, in full Manchester United Football Club, is an English professional football (soccer) team based in Manchester, England. It is one of the richest and best-supported football clubs not only in England but in the entire world. The club has won the English top-division league championship a record 20 times and the Football Association Cup 12 times.  
  What was the original name of Manchester United?  
  Manchester United was formed as Newton Heath LYR in 1878 by workers from the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway. It was renamed Manchester United in 1902.  
  Why is Manchester United also known as "the Red Devils"?  
  Manchester United (Man U) is nicknamed “the Red Devils” for its distinctive red jerseys.  
  When did the Manchester United plane crash take place?  
  Manchester United was struck by tragedy in 1958 when an aircraft carrying the team crashed in Munich, Germany, killing 23 of the 44 people onboard.  
  When did Manchester United first win the European Cup?  
  In 1968 Manchester United became the first English club to win the European Cup (now known as the Champions League) with a 4–1 victory over Benfica of Portugal in the final.  
  Manchester United, English professional football (soccer) team based in Manchester, England. Nicknamed “the Red Devils” for its distinctive red jerseys, it is one of the richest and best-supported football clubs not only in England but in the entire world. The club has won the English top-division league championship a record 20 times and the Football Association (FA) Cup 12 times.  
  The club was formed as Newton Heath LYR in 1878 by workers from the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway. Renamed Manchester United in 1902, the club won its first English league championship in 1907–08. In 1910 the club moved from its old Bank Street ground into Old Trafford stadium, which has served as the team’s home ever since.  
  Manchester United’s history since World War II has been dominated by two long-serving managers. Sir Matthew Busby was appointed manager in 1945 and over the next 24 years steered the club to five English league and two FA Cup victories. The club had to contend with tragedy in 1958 when an aircraft carrying the team crashed in Munich, killing 23 of the 44 onboard. In the 1960s the team, rebuilt by Busby, included the highly talented attacking trio of Bobby Charlton, George Best, and Denis Law. In 1968 this team became the first English club to win the European Cup (now known as the Champions League) with a 4–1 victory over Benfica of Portugal in the final.  
  The former coach of the Scottish team Aberdeen, Alex Ferguson, managed the club from 1986 to 2013 and presided over an unparalleled spell of dominance in the English league. Manchester United has won 12 Premier League titles since that league’s inaugural season in 1992–93. In the 1998–99 season the club secured the first “treble” in English football history by winning the Premier League, the FA Cup, and the Champions League. A second Champions League victory came in the 2007–08 season. Dramatically, the club lost another possible title on the last day of the 2011–12 season, when the other top Premier League team in the city, Manchester City FC, snatched the league title on point difference. The two Premier League clubs have elevated the city’s status worldwide.  
  Manchester United is renowned for its youth team program, which has generated many notable homegrown players who later performed for the club’s first team, including David Beckham. The club has also brought in a number of major transfer signings over the years, such as Wayne Rooney, Rio Ferdinand, Andy Cole, Roy Keane, Eric Cantona, Patrice Evra, Dimitar Berbatov, and Cristiano Ronaldo.  
  This article is about the men's professional football team. For the women's team associated to the same club, see Manchester United W.F.C. For the independent club established by supporters, see F.C. United of Manchester.  
  Manchester United Football Club, commonly referred to as Man United (often stylised as Man Utd), or simply United, is a professional football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester, England. The club competes in the Premier League, the top division in the English football league system. Nicknamed the Red Devils, they were founded as Newton Heath LYR Football Club in 1878, but changed their name to Manchester United in 1902. After a spell playing in Clayton, Manchester, the club moved to their current stadium, Old Trafford, in 1910.  
  History  
  Early years (1878–1945)  
  Manchester United was formed in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club by the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR) depot at Newton Heath.[16] The team initially played games against other departments and railway companies, but on 20 November 1880, they competed in their first recorded match; wearing the colours of the railway company – green and gold – they were defeated 6–0 by Bolton Wanderers' reserve team.[17] By 1888, the club had become a founding member of The Combination, a regional football league. Following the league's dissolution after only one season, Newton Heath joined the newly formed 'Football Alliance', which ran for three seasons before being merged with The Football League. This resulted in the club starting the 1892–93 season in the First Division, by which time it had become independent of the railway company and dropped the "LYR" from its name.[16] After two seasons, the club was relegated to the Second Division.[16]  
  In January 1902, with debts of £2,670 – equivalent to £310,000 in 2024[nb 1] – the club was served with a winding-up order.[18] Captain Harry Stafford found four local businessmen, including John Henry Davies (who became club president), each willing to invest £500 in return for a direct interest in running the club and who subsequently changed the name;[19] on 24 April 1902, Manchester United was officially born.[20][nb 2] Under Ernest Mangnall, who assumed managerial duties in 1903, the team finished as Second Division runners-up in 1906 and secured promotion to the First Division, which they won in 1908 – the club's first league title. The following season began with victory in the first ever Charity Shield[21] and ended with the club's first FA Cup title. Manchester United won the First Division for the second time in 1911, but at the end of the following season, Mangnall left the club to join Manchester City.[22]  
  In 1922, three years after the resumption of football following the First World War, the club was relegated to the Second Division, where it remained until regaining promotion in 1925. Relegated again in 1931, Manchester United became a yo-yo club, achieving its all-time lowest position of 20th place in the Second Division in 1934. Following the death of principal benefactor John Henry Davies in October 1927, the club's finances deteriorated to the extent that Manchester United would likely have gone bankrupt had it not been for James W. Gibson, who, in December 1931, invested £2,000 and assumed control of the club.[23] In the 1938–39 season, the last year of football before the Second World War, the club finished 14th in the First Division.[23]  
  Busby years (1945–1969)  
  In October 1945, the impending resumption of football after the war led to the managerial appointment of Matt Busby, who demanded an unprecedented level of control over team selection, player transfers and training sessions.[24] Busby led the team to second-place league finishes in 1947, 1948 and 1949, and to FA Cup victory in 1948. In 1952, the club won the First Division, its first league title for 41 years.[25] They then won back-to-back league titles in 1956 and 1957; the squad, who had an average age of 22, were nicknamed "the Busby Babes" by the media, a testament to Busby's faith in his youth players.[26] In 1957, Manchester United became the first English team to compete in the European Cup, despite objections from The Football League, who had denied Chelsea the same opportunity the previous season.[27] En route to the semi-final, which they lost to Real Madrid, the team recorded a 10–0 victory over Belgian champions Anderlecht, which remains the club's biggest victory on record.[28]  
  Assistant manager Jimmy Murphy took over as manager while Busby recovered from his injuries and the club's makeshift side reached the FA Cup final, which they lost to Bolton Wanderers. In recognition of the team's tragedy, UEFA invited the club to compete in the 1958–59 European Cup alongside eventual League champions Wolverhampton Wanderers. Despite approval from The Football Association, The Football League determined that the club should not enter the competition, since it had not qualified.[31][32] Busby rebuilt the team through the 1960s by signing players such as Denis Law and Pat Crerand, who combined with the next generation of youth players – including George Best – to win the FA Cup in 1963. The following season, they finished second in the league, then won the title in 1965 and 1967. In 1968, Manchester United became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final[33] with a team that contained three European Footballers of the Year: Bobby Charlton, Denis Law and George Best.[34] They then represented Europe in the 1968 Intercontinental Cup against Estudiantes of Argentina, but defeat in the first leg in Buenos Aires meant a 1–1 draw at Old Trafford three weeks later was not enough to claim the title. Busby resigned as manager in 1969 before being replaced by the reserve team coach, former Manchester United player Wilf McGuinness.[35]  
  1969–1986  
  Following an eighth-place finish in the 1969–70 season and a poor start to the 1970–71 season, Busby was persuaded to temporarily resume managerial duties, and McGuinness returned to his position as reserve team coach. In June 1971, Frank O'Farrell was appointed as manager, but lasted less than 18 months before being replaced by Tommy Docherty in December 1972.[37] Docherty saved Manchester United from relegation that season, only to see them relegated in 1974; by that time the trio of Best, Law, and Charlton had left the club.[33] The team won promotion at the first attempt and reached the FA Cup final in 1976, but were beaten by Southampton. They reached the final again in 1977, beating Liverpool 2–1. Docherty was dismissed shortly afterwards, following the revelation of his affair with the club physiotherapist's wife.[35][38]  
  Dave Sexton replaced Docherty as manager in the summer of 1977. Despite major signings, including Joe Jordan, Gordon McQueen, Gary Bailey, and Ray Wilkins, the team failed to win any trophies; they finished second in 1979–80 and lost to Arsenal in the 1979 FA Cup final. Sexton was dismissed in 1981, even though the team won the last seven games under his direction.[39] He was replaced by Ron Atkinson, who immediately broke the British record transfer fee to sign Bryan Robson from his former club West Bromwich Albion. Under Atkinson, Manchester United won the FA Cup in 1983 and 1985 and beat rivals Liverpool to win the 1983 Charity Shield. In 1985–86, after 13 wins and two draws in its first 15 matches, the club was favourite to win the league but finished in fourth place. The following season, with the club in danger of relegation by November, Atkinson was dismissed.[40]  
  Ferguson years (1986–2013)  
  Alex Ferguson and his assistant Archie Knox arrived from Aberdeen on the day of Atkinson's dismissal,[41] and guided the club to an 11th-place finish in the league.[42] Despite a second-place finish in 1987–88, the club was back in 11th place the following season.[43] Reportedly on the verge of being dismissed, Ferguson's job was saved by victory over Crystal Palace in the 1990 FA Cup final.[44][45] The following season, Manchester United claimed their first UEFA Cup Winners' Cup title. That triumph allowed the club to compete in the European Super Cup for the first time, where United beat European Cup holders Red Star Belgrade 1–0 at Old Trafford. The club appeared in two consecutive League Cup finals in 1991 and 1992, beating Nottingham Forest 1–0 in the second to win that competition for the first time as well.[40] In 1993, in the first season of the newly founded Premier League, the club won their first league title since 1967, and a year later, for the first time since 1957, they won a second consecutive title – alongside the FA Cup – to complete the first "Double" in the club's history.[40] United then became the first English club to do the Double twice when they won both competitions again in 1995–96,[46] before retaining the league title once more in 1996–97 with a game to spare.[47]  
  Manchester United won the league again in the 1999–2000 and 2000–01 seasons, becoming only the fourth club to win the English title three times in a row. The team finished third in 2001–02, before regaining the title in 2002–03.[53] They won the 2003–04 FA Cup, beating Millwall 3–0 in the final at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff to lift the trophy for a record 11th time.[54] In the 2005–06 season, Manchester United failed to qualify for the knockout phase of the UEFA Champions League for the first time in over a decade,[55] but recovered to secure a second-place league finish and victory over Wigan Athletic in the 2006 Football League Cup final. The club regained the Premier League title in the 2006–07 season, before completing the European double in 2007–08 with a 6–5 penalty shoot-out victory over Chelsea in the 2008 UEFA Champions League final in Moscow to go with their 17th English league title. Ryan Giggs made a record 759th appearance for the club in that game, overtaking previous record holder Bobby Charlton.[56] In December 2008, the club became the first British team to win the FIFA Club World Cup after beating LDU Quito 1–0 in the final. Manchester United followed this with the 2008–09 Football League Cup, and its third successive Premier League title.[57][58] That summer, forward Cristiano Ronaldo was sold to Real Madrid for a world record £80 million.[59] In 2010, Manchester United defeated Aston Villa 2–1 at Wembley to retain the League Cup, its first successful defence of a knockout cup competition.[60]  
  After finishing as runners-up to Chelsea in the 2009–10 season, United achieved a record 19th league title in 2010–11, securing the championship with a 1–1 away draw against Blackburn Rovers on 14 May 2011.[61] This was extended to 20 league titles in 2012–13, securing the championship with a 3–0 home win against Aston Villa on 22 April 2013.[62]  
  2013–present  
  On 8 May 2013, Ferguson announced that he was to retire as manager at the end of the football season, but would remain at the club as a director and club ambassador.[63][64] He retired as the most decorated manager in football history.[65][66] The club announced the next day that Everton manager David Moyes would replace him from 1 July, having signed a six-year contract.[67][68][69] Ryan Giggs took over as interim player-manager 10 months later, on 22 April 2014, when Moyes was sacked after a poor season in which the club failed to defend their Premier League title and failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1995–96.[70] They also failed to qualify for the UEFA Europa League, the first time Manchester United had not qualified for a European competition since 1990.[71] On 19 May 2014, it was confirmed that Louis van Gaal would replace Moyes as Manchester United manager on a three-year deal, with Giggs as his assistant.[72] Malcolm Glazer, the patriarch of the family that owns the club, died on 28 May 2014.[73]  
  Under Van Gaal, United won a 12th FA Cup, but a disappointing slump in the middle of his second season led to rumours of the board sounding out potential replacements.[74] Van Gaal was ultimately sacked just two days after the cup final victory, with United having finished fifth in the league.[75] Former Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid manager José Mourinho was appointed in his place on 27 May 2016.[76] Mourinho signed a three-year contract, and in his first season won the FA Community Shield, EFL Cup and UEFA Europa League. Wayne Rooney scored his 250th goal for United, a stoppage-time equaliser in a league game against Stoke City in January 2017, surpassing Sir Bobby Charlton as the club's all-time top scorer.[77] The following season, United finished second in the league – their highest league placing since 2013 – but were still 19 points behind rivals Manchester City. Mourinho also guided the club to a 19th FA Cup final, but they lost 1–0 to Chelsea. On 18 December 2018, with United in sixth place in the Premier League table, 19 points behind leaders Liverpool and 11 points outside the Champions League places, Mourinho was sacked after 144 games in charge. The following day, former United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjær was appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the season.[78] On 28 March 2019, after winning 14 of his first 19 matches in charge, Solskjær was appointed permanent manager on a three-year deal.[79]  
  On 18 April 2021, Manchester United announced they were joining 11 other European clubs as founding members of the European Super League, a proposed 20-team competition intended to rival the UEFA Champions League.[80] The announcement drew a significant backlash from supporters, other clubs, media partners, sponsors, players and the UK Government, forcing the club to withdraw just two days later.[81][82][83][84][85] The failure of the project led to the resignation of executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward, while resultant protests against Woodward and the Glazer family led to a pitch invasion ahead of a league match against Liverpool on 2 May 2021, which saw the first postponement of a Premier League game due to supporter protests in the competition's history.[86][87]  
  On the pitch, United equalled their own record for the biggest win in Premier League history with a 9–0 win over Southampton on 2 February 2021,[88] but ended the season with defeat on penalties in the UEFA Europa League final against Villarreal, going four straight seasons without a trophy.[89] On 20 November 2021, Solskjær left his role as manager.[90] Former midfielder Michael Carrick took charge for the next three games, before the appointment of Ralf Rangnick as interim manager until the end of the season.[91]  
  On 21 April 2022, Erik ten Hag was appointed as the manager from the end of the 2021–22 season, signing a contract until June 2025 with the option of extending for a further year.[92] Ten Hag won Manchester United the 2022–23 EFL Cup against Newcastle United, winning 2–0.[93] On 5 March 2023, the club suffered their joint-heaviest defeat, losing 7–0 to rivals Liverpool at Anfield.[94]  
  The club crest is derived from the Manchester City Council coat of arms, although all that remains of it on the current crest is the ship in full sail.[95] The devil stems from the club's nickname "The Red Devils" inspired from Salford Rugby Club;[96][97] it was included on club programmes and scarves in the 1960s, and incorporated into the club crest in 1970, although the crest was not included on the chest of the shirt until 1971.[95] In 1975, the red devil ("A devil facing the sinister guardant supporting with both hands a trident gules") was granted as a heraldic badge by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by Manchester United.[98] In 2023, the Red Devil motif alone, which had been used in promotional items and merchandise previously, was used as the sole badge on the Manchester United third kit. The existing crest remains on the home and away kits.  
  Newton Heath's uniform in 1879, four years before the club played its first competitive match, has been documented as 'white with blue cord'.[99] A photograph of the Newton Heath team, taken in 1892, is believed to show the players wearing red-and-white quartered jerseys and navy blue knickerbockers.[100] Between 1894 and 1896, the players wore green and gold jerseys[100] which were replaced in 1896 by white shirts, which were worn with navy blue shorts.[100]  
  After the name change in 1902, the club colours were changed to red shirts, white shorts, and black socks, which has become the standard Manchester United home kit.[100] Very few changes were made to the kit until 1922 when the club adopted white shirts bearing a deep red "V" around the neck, similar to the shirt worn in the 1909 FA Cup final. They remained part of their home kits until 1927.[100] For a period in 1934, the cherry and white hooped change shirt became the home colours, but the following season the red shirt was recalled after the club's lowest ever league placing of 20th in the Second Division and the hooped shirt dropped back to being the change.[100]  
  The black socks were changed to white from 1959 to 1965, where they were replaced with red socks up until 1971 with white used on occasion, when the club reverted to black. Black shorts and white socks are sometimes worn with the home strip, most often in away games, if there is a clash with the opponent's kit. For 2018–19, black shorts and red socks became the primary choice for the home kit.[101] Since 1997–98, white socks have been the preferred choice for European games, which are typically played on weeknights, to aid with player visibility.[102] The current home kit is a red shirt with Adidas' trademark three stripes in red on the shoulders, white shorts, and black socks.[103]  
  The Manchester United away strip has often been a white shirt, black shorts and white socks, but there have been several exceptions. These include an all-black strip with blue and gold trimmings between 1993 and 1995, the navy blue shirt with silver horizontal pinstripes worn during the 1999–2000 season,[104] and the 2011–12 away kit, which had a royal blue body and sleeves with hoops made of small midnight navy blue and black stripes, with black shorts and blue socks.[105] An all-grey away kit worn during the 1995–96 season was dropped after just five games; in its final outing against Southampton, Alex Ferguson instructed the team to change into the third kit during half-time. The reason for dropping it being that the players claimed to have trouble finding their teammates against the crowd, United failed to win a competitive game in the kit in five attempts.[106] In 2001, to celebrate 100 years as "Manchester United", a reversible white and gold away kit was released, although the actual match day shirts were not reversible.[107]  
  The club's third kit is often all-blue; this was most recently the case during the 2014–15 season.[108] Exceptions include a green-and-gold halved shirt worn between 1992 and 1994, a blue-and-white striped shirt worn during the 1994–95 and 1995–96 seasons and once in 1996–97, an all-black kit worn during the Treble-winning 1998–99 season, and a white shirt with black-and-red horizontal pinstripes worn between 2003–04 and 2005–06.[109] From 2006–07 to 2013–14, the third kit was the previous season's away kit, albeit updated with the new club sponsor in 2006–07 and 2010–11, apart from the 2008–09 season, when an all-blue kit was launched to mark the 40th anniversary of the 1967–68 European Cup success.[110]  
  Grounds  
  United's current ground, Old Trafford, after its expansion in 2006  
  1878–1893: North Road  
  Newton Heath initially played on a field on North Road, close to the railway yard; the original capacity was about 12,000, but club officials deemed the facilities inadequate for a club hoping to join The Football League.[111] Some expansion took place in 1887, and in 1891, Newton Heath used its minimal financial reserves to purchase two grandstands, each able to hold 1,000 spectators.[112] Although attendances were not recorded for many of the earliest matches at North Road, the highest documented attendance was approximately 15,000 for a First Division match against Sunderland on 4 March 1893.[113] A similar attendance was also recorded for a friendly match against Gorton Villa on 5 September 1889.[114]  
  1893–1910: Bank Street  
  In June 1893, after the club was evicted from North Road by its owners, Manchester Deans and Canons, who felt it was inappropriate for the club to charge an entry fee to the ground, secretary A. H. Albut procured the use of the Bank Street ground in Clayton.[115] It initially had no stands, by the start of the 1893–94 season, two had been built; one spanning the full length of the pitch on one side and the other behind the goal at the "Bradford end". At the opposite end, the "Clayton end", the ground had been "built up, thousands thus being provided for".[115] Newton Heath's first league match at Bank Street was played against Burnley on 1 September 1893, when 10,000 people saw Alf Farman score a hat-trick, Newton Heath's only goals in a 3–2 win. The remaining stands were completed for the following league game against Nottingham Forest three weeks later.[115] In October 1895, before the visit of Manchester City, the club purchased a 2,000-capacity stand from the Broughton Rangers rugby league club, and put up another stand on the "reserved side" (as distinct from the "popular side"); however, weather restricted the attendance for the Manchester City match to just 12,000.[116]  
  When the Bank Street ground was temporarily closed by bailiffs in 1902, club captain Harry Stafford raised enough money to pay for the club's next away game at Bristol City and found a temporary ground at Harpurhey for the next reserves game against Padiham.[117] Following financial investment, new club president John Henry Davies paid £500 for the erection of a new 1,000-seat stand at Bank Street.[118] Within four years, the stadium had cover on all four sides, as well as the ability to hold approximately 50,000 spectators, some of whom could watch from the viewing gallery atop the Main Stand.[118]  
  1910–present: Old Trafford  
  Following Manchester United's first league title in 1908 and the FA Cup a year later, it was decided that Bank Street was too restrictive for Davies' ambition;[118] in February 1909, six weeks before the club's first FA Cup title, Old Trafford was named as the home of Manchester United, following the purchase of land for around £60,000. Architect Archibald Leitch was given a budget of £30,000 for construction; original plans called for seating capacity of 100,000, though budget constraints forced a revision to 77,000.[119][120] The building was constructed by Messrs Brameld and Smith of Manchester. The stadium's record attendance was registered on 25 March 1939, when an FA Cup semi-final between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town drew 76,962 spectators.[121]  
  Bombing in the Second World War destroyed much of the stadium; the central tunnel in the South Stand was all that remained of that quarter. After the war, the club received compensation from the War Damage Commission in the amount of £22,278. While reconstruction took place, the team played its "home" games at Manchester City's Maine Road ground; Manchester United was charged £5,000 per year, plus a nominal percentage of gate receipts.[122] Later improvements included the addition of roofs, first to the Stretford End and then to the North and East Stands. The roofs were supported by pillars that obstructed many fans' views, and they were eventually replaced with a cantilevered structure. The Stretford End was the last stand to receive a cantilevered roof, completed in time for the 1993–94 season.[35] First used on 25 March 1957 and costing £40,000, four 180-foot (55 m) pylons were erected, each housing 54 individual floodlights. These were dismantled in 1987 and replaced by a lighting system embedded in the roof of each stand, which remains in use today.[123]  
  The Taylor Report's requirement for an all-seater stadium lowered capacity at Old Trafford to around 44,000 by 1993. In 1995, the North Stand was redeveloped into three tiers, restoring capacity to approximately 55,000. At the end of the 1998–99 season, second tiers were added to the East and West Stands, raising capacity to around 67,000, and between July 2005 and May 2006, 8,000 more seats were added via second tiers in the north-west and north-east quadrants. Part of the new seating was used for the first time on 26 March 2006, when an attendance of 69,070 became a new Premier League record.[124] The record was pushed steadily upwards before reaching its peak on 31 March 2007, when 76,098 spectators saw Manchester United beat Blackburn Rovers 4–1, with just 114 seats (0.15 per cent of the total capacity of 76,212) unoccupied.[125] In 2009, reorganisation of the seating resulted in a reduction of capacity by 255 to 75,957.[126][127] Manchester United has the second highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund.[128][129][130] In 2021 United co-chairman Joel Glazer said that "early-stage planning work" for the redevelopment of Old Trafford was underway. This followed "increasing criticism" over the lack of development of the ground since 2006.[131]  
  Support  
  Manchester United is one of the most popular football clubs in the world, with one of the highest average home attendances in Europe.[132] The club states that its worldwide fan base includes more than 200 officially recognised branches of the Manchester United Supporters Club (MUSC), in at least 24 countries.[133] The club takes advantage of this support through its worldwide summer tours. Accountancy firm and sports industry consultants Deloitte estimate that Manchester United has 75 million fans worldwide.[11] The club has the third highest social media following in the world among sports teams (after Barcelona and Real Madrid), with over 82 million Facebook followers as of July 2023.[12][134] A 2014 study showed that Manchester United had the loudest fans in the Premier League.[135]  
  Rivalries  
  Manchester United have rivalries with Arsenal, Leeds United, Liverpool, and Manchester City, against whom they contest the Manchester derby.[138][139]  
  The rivalry with Liverpool is rooted in competition between the cities during the Industrial Revolution, when Manchester was famous for its textile industry while Liverpool was a major port.[140] The two clubs are the most successful English teams in both domestic and international competitions; and between them they have won 39 league titles, 9 European Cups, 4 UEFA Cups, 5 UEFA Super Cups, 20 FA Cups, 14 League Cups, 2 FIFA Club World Cups, 1 Intercontinental Cup and 37 FA Community Shields.[6][141][142] Ranked the two biggest clubs in England by France Football magazine based on metrics such as fanbase and historical importance,[143] Manchester United v Liverpool is considered to be the most famous fixture in English football and one of the biggest rivalries in the football world.[144][145][146][147] No player has been transferred between the clubs since 1964.[148] Former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said in 2002, "My greatest challenge was knocking Liverpool right off their fucking perch".[149]  
  The rivalry with Arsenal arises from the numerous times the two teams, as well as managers Alex Ferguson and Arsène Wenger, have battled for the Premier League title. With 33 titles between them (20 for Manchester United, 13 for Arsenal) this fixture has become known as one of the finest Premier League match-ups in history.[151][152]  
  Global brand  
  Manchester United has been described as a global brand; a 2011 report by Brand Finance, valued the club's trademarks and associated intellectual property at £412 million – an increase of £39 million on the previous year, valuing it at £11 million more than the second best brand, Real Madrid – and gave the brand a strength rating of AAA (Extremely Strong).[153] In July 2012, Manchester United was ranked first by Forbes magazine in its list of the ten most valuable sports team brands, valuing the Manchester United brand at $2.23 billion.[154] The club is ranked third in the Deloitte Football Money League (behind Real Madrid and Barcelona).[155] In January 2013, the club became the first sports team in the world to be valued at $3 billion.[156] Forbes magazine valued the club at $3.3 billion – $1.2 billion higher than the next most valuable sports team.[156] They were overtaken by Real Madrid for the next four years, but Manchester United returned to the top of the Forbes list in June 2017, with a valuation of $3.689 billion.[157]  
  The core strength of Manchester United's global brand is often attributed to Matt Busby's rebuilding of the team and subsequent success following the Munich air disaster, which drew worldwide acclaim.[137] The "iconic" team included Bobby Charlton and Nobby Stiles (members of England's World Cup winning team), Denis Law and George Best. The attacking style of play adopted by this team (in contrast to the defensive-minded "catenaccio" approach favoured by the leading Italian teams of the era) "captured the imagination of the English footballing public".[158] Busby's team also became associated with the liberalisation of Western society during the 1960s; George Best, known as the "Fifth Beatle" for his iconic haircut, was the first footballer to significantly develop an off-the-field media profile.[158]  
  As the second English football club to float on the London Stock Exchange in 1991, the club raised significant capital, with which it further developed its commercial strategy. The club's focus on commercial and sporting success brought significant profits in an industry often characterised by chronic losses.[159] The strength of the Manchester United brand was bolstered by intense off-the-field media attention to individual players, most notably David Beckham (who quickly developed his own global brand). This attention often generates greater interest in on-the-field activities, and hence generates sponsorship opportunities – the value of which is driven by television exposure.[160] During his time with the club, Beckham's popularity across Asia was integral to the club's commercial success in that part of the world.[161]  
  Because higher league placement results in a greater share of television rights, success on the field generates greater income for the club. Since the inception of the Premier League, Manchester United has received the largest share of the revenue generated from the BSkyB broadcasting deal.[162] Manchester United has also consistently enjoyed the highest commercial income of any English club; in 2005–06, the club's commercial arm generated £51 million, compared to £42.5 million at Chelsea, £39.3 million at Liverpool, £34 million at Arsenal and £27.9 million at Newcastle United. A key sponsorship relationship was with sportswear company Nike, who managed the club's merchandising operation as part of a £303 million 13-year partnership between 2002 and 2015.[163] Through Manchester United Finance and the club's membership scheme, One United, those with an affinity for the club can purchase a range of branded goods and services. Additionally, Manchester United-branded media services – such as the club's dedicated television channel, MUTV – have allowed the club to expand its fan base to those beyond the reach of its Old Trafford stadium.[11]  
  In an initial five-year deal worth £500,000, Sharp Electronics became the club's first shirt sponsor at the beginning of the 1982–83 season, a relationship that lasted until the end of the 1999–2000 season, when Vodafone agreed a four-year, £30 million deal.[165] Vodafone agreed to pay £36 million to extend the deal by four years, but after two seasons triggered a break clause in order to concentrate on its sponsorship of the Champions League.[165]  
  To commence at the start of the 2006–07 season, American insurance corporation AIG agreed a four-year £56.5 million deal which in September 2006 became the most valuable in the world.[166][167] At the beginning of the 2010–11 season, American reinsurance company Aon became the club's principal sponsor in a four-year deal reputed to be worth approximately £80 million, making it the most lucrative shirt sponsorship deal in football history.[168] Manchester United announced their first training kit sponsor in August 2011, agreeing a four-year deal with DHL reported to be worth £40 million; it is believed to be the first instance of training kit sponsorship in English football.[169][170] The DHL contract lasted for over a year before the club bought back the contract in October 2012, although they remained the club's official logistics partner.[171] The contract for the training kit sponsorship was then sold to Aon in April 2013 for a deal worth £180 million over eight years, which also included purchasing the naming rights for the Trafford Training Centre.[172]  
  The club's first kit manufacturer was Umbro, until a five-year deal was agreed with Admiral Sportswear in 1975.[173] Adidas won the contract in 1980,[174] before Umbro started a second spell in 1992.[175] That sponsorship lasted for ten years, followed by Nike's record-breaking £302.9 million deal, which lasted until 2015; 3.8 million replica shirts were sold in the first 22 months with the company.[176][177] In addition to Nike and Chevrolet, the club also has several lower-level "platinum" sponsors, including Aon and Budweiser.[178]  
  On 30 July 2012, United signed a seven-year deal with American automotive corporation General Motors, which replaced Aon as the shirt sponsor from the 2014–15 season. The new $80m-a-year shirt deal is worth $559m over seven years and features the logo of General Motors brand Chevrolet.[179][180] Nike announced that they would not renew their kit supply deal with Manchester United after the 2014–15 season, citing rising costs.[181][182] Since the start of the 2015–16 season, Adidas has manufactured Manchester United's kit as part of a world-record 10-year deal worth a minimum of £750 million.[183][184] Plumbing products manufacturer Kohler became the club's first sleeve sponsor ahead of the 2018–19 season.[185] Manchester United and General Motors did not renew their sponsorship deal, and the club subsequently signed a five-year, £235m sponsorship deal with TeamViewer ahead of the 2021–22 season.[186]  
  Ownership and finances  
  Originally funded by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, the club became a limited company in 1892 and sold shares to local supporters for £1 via an application form.[19] In 1902, majority ownership passed to the four local businessmen who invested £500 to save the club from bankruptcy, including future club president John Henry Davies.[19] After his death in 1927, the club faced bankruptcy yet again, but was saved in December 1931 by James W. Gibson, who assumed control of the club after an investment of £2,000.[23] Gibson promoted his son, Alan, to the board in 1948,[187] but died three years later; the Gibson family retained ownership of the club through James' wife, Lillian,[188] but the position of chairman passed to former player Harold Hardman.[189]  
  Promoted to the board a few days after the Munich air disaster, Louis Edwards, a friend of Matt Busby, began acquiring shares in the club; for an investment of approximately £40,000, he accumulated a 54 per cent shareholding and took control in January 1964.[190] When Lillian Gibson died in January 1971, her shares passed to Alan Gibson who sold a percentage of his shares to Louis Edwards' son, Martin, in 1978; Martin Edwards went on to become chairman upon his father's death in 1980.[191] Media tycoon Robert Maxwell attempted to buy the club in 1984, but did not meet Edwards' asking price.[191] In 1989, chairman Martin Edwards attempted to sell the club to Michael Knighton for £20 million, but the sale fell through and Knighton joined the board of directors instead.[191]  
  Manchester United was floated on the stock market in June 1991 (raising £6.7 million),[192] and received yet another takeover bid in 1998, this time from Rupert Murdoch's British Sky Broadcasting Corporation. This resulted in the formation of Shareholders United Against Murdoch – now the Manchester United Supporters' Trust – who encouraged supporters to buy shares in the club in an attempt to block any hostile takeover. The Manchester United board accepted a £623 million offer,[193] but the takeover was blocked by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission at the final hurdle in April 1999.[194] A few years later, a power struggle emerged between the club's manager, Alex Ferguson, and his horse-racing partners, John Magnier and J. P. McManus, who had gradually become the majority shareholders. In a dispute that stemmed from contested ownership of the horse Rock of Gibraltar, Magnier and McManus attempted to have Ferguson removed from his position as manager, and the board responded by approaching investors to attempt to reduce the Irishmen's majority.[195]  
  Glazer ownership  
  In May 2005, Malcolm Glazer purchased the 28.7 per cent stake held by McManus and Magnier, thus acquiring a controlling interest through his investment vehicle Red Football Ltd in a highly leveraged takeover valuing the club at approximately £800 million (then approx. $1.5 billion).[196] Once the purchase was complete, the club was taken off the stock exchange.[197] Much of the takeover money was borrowed by the Glazers; the debts were transferred to the club. As a result, the club went from being debt-free to being saddled with debts of £540 million, at interest rates of between 7% to 20%.[15][198][199]  
  In July 2006, the club announced a £660 million debt refinancing package, resulting in a 30 per cent reduction in annual interest payments to £62 million a year.[200][201] In January 2010, with debts of £716.5 million ($1.17 billion),[202] Manchester United further refinanced through a bond issue worth £504 million, enabling them to pay off most of the £509 million owed to international banks.[203] The annual interest payable on the bonds – which were to mature on 1 February 2017 – is approximately £45 million per annum.[204] Despite restructuring, the club's debt prompted protests from fans on 23 January 2010, at Old Trafford and the club's Trafford Training Centre.[205][206] Supporter groups encouraged match-going fans to wear green and gold, the colours of Newton Heath. On 30 January, reports emerged that the Manchester United Supporters' Trust had held meetings with a group of wealthy fans, dubbed the "Red Knights", with plans to buying out the Glazers' controlling interest.[207] The club's debts reached a high of £777 million in June 2007.[208]  
  In August 2011, the Glazers were believed to have approached Credit Suisse in preparation for a $1 billion (approx. £600 million) initial public offering (IPO) on the Singapore stock exchange that would value the club at more than £2 billion;[209] however, in July 2012, the club announced plans to list its IPO on the New York Stock Exchange instead.[210] Shares were originally set to go on sale for between $16 and $20 each, but the price was cut to $14 by the launch of the IPO on 10 August, following negative comments from Wall Street analysts and Facebook's disappointing stock market debut in May. Even after the cut, Manchester United was valued at $2.3 billion, making it the most valuable football club in the world.[211]  
  The New York Stock Exchange allows for different shareholders to enjoy different voting rights over the club. Shares offered to the public ("Class A") had 10 times lesser voting rights than shares retained by the Glazers ("Class B").[212] Initially in 2012, only 10% of shares were offered to the public.[213] As of 2019, the Glazers retain ultimate control over the club, with over 70% of shares, and even higher voting power.[214]  
  In 2012, The Guardian estimated that the club had paid a total of over £500 million in debt interest and other fees on behalf of the Glazers,[215] and in 2019, reported that the total sum paid by the club for such fees had risen to £1 billion.[199] At the end of 2019, the club had a net debt of nearly £400 million.[216]  
  In 2023, the Glazers began soliciting bids for the sale of the club, and several bids were received. Jim Ratcliffe, who owns INEOS, and Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani, a Qatari sheikh, were the only bidders who had publicly declared their interest in a controlling share of the club.[217] In March 2023, Finnish entrepreneur Thomas Zilliacus also made his interest in Manchester United public.[218]  
  On 24 December 2023, it was announced that Ratcliffe had purchased 25 per cent of Manchester United, and that his INEOS Sport company was taking control of football operations.[219] The Glazers remain as majority shareholders.  
  Players  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Under-21s and Academy  
  List of under-21s and academy players with articles  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Bryan Glazer Kevin Glazer Edward Glazer Darcie Glazer Kassewitz Robert Leitão John Hooks  
  Honours  
  Manchester United is one of the most successful clubs in Europe in terms of trophies won.[262] The club's first trophy was the Manchester Cup, which they won as Newton Heath LYR in 1886.[263] In 1908, the club won their first league title, and won the FA Cup for the first time the following year. Since then, they have gone on to win a record 20 top-division titles – including a record 13 Premier League titles – and their total of 12 FA Cups is second only to Arsenal (14). Those titles have meant the club has appeared a record 30 times in the FA Community Shield (formerly the FA Charity Shield), which is played at the start of each season between the winners of the league and FA Cup from the previous season; of those 30 appearances, Manchester United have won a record 21, including four times when the match was drawn and the trophy shared by the two clubs.  
  The club had a successful period under the management of Matt Busby, starting with the FA Cup in 1948 and culminating with becoming the first English club to win the European Cup in 1968, winning five league titles in the intervening years. The club's most successful decade, however, came in the 1990s under Alex Ferguson; five league titles, four FA Cups, one League Cup, five Charity Shields (one shared), one UEFA Champions League, one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, one UEFA Super Cup and one Intercontinental Cup. The club has won the Double (winning the Premier League and FA Cup in the same season) three times; the second in 1995–96 saw them become the first club to do so twice, and it became referred to as the "Double Double".[264] United became the sole British club to win the Intercontinental Cup in 1999 and are one of only three British clubs to have won the FIFA Club World Cup, in 2008. In 1999, United became the first English club to win the Treble.[48] In 2017, United won the 2016–17 UEFA Europa League, beating Ajax in the final. In winning that title, United became the fifth club to have won the "European Treble" of European Cup/UEFA Champions League, Cup Winners' Cup, and UEFA Cup/Europa League after Juventus, Ajax, Bayern Munich and Chelsea.[265][266]  
  The club's most recent trophy came in February 2023, with the 2022–23 EFL Cup.[93]  
  Short competitions – such as the FA Charity/Community Shield, Intercontinental Cup (now defunct), FIFA Club World Cup or UEFA Super Cup – are not generally considered to contribute towards a Double or Treble.[267]  
  Manchester United Women  
  A team called Manchester United Supporters Club Ladies began operations in the late 1970s and was unofficially recognised as the club's senior women's team. They became founding members of the North West Women's Regional Football League in 1989.[268] The team made an official partnership with Manchester United in 2001, becoming the club's official women's team; however, in 2005, following Malcolm Glazer's takeover, the club was disbanded as it was seen to be "unprofitable".[269] In 2018, Manchester United formed a new women's football team, which entered the second division of women's football in England for their debut season. 2023 will see that team enter European competition for the first time.[270][271]  
  ^ Sources are divided on the exact date of the meeting and subsequent name change. Whilst official club sources claim that it occurred on 26 April, the meeting was reported by the Manchester Evening Chronicle in its edition of 25 April, suggesting it was indeed on 24 April.  
  ^ Solskjaer was initially appointed as interim manager; he was given the job permanently on 28 March 2019.  
  ^ "Old Trafford". premierleague.com. Premier League. Archived from the original on 5 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2022.  
  ^ Glanville, Brian (27 April 2005). "The great Chelsea surrender". The Times. London. Archived from the original on 29 June 2011. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ "Arise Sir Alex?". BBC News. 27 May 1999. Archived from the original on 26 March 2012. Retrieved 2 April 2010.  
  ^ "Knights Bachelor". BBC News. 12 June 1999. Archived from the original on 13 March 2016. Retrieved 19 January 2022.  
  ^ "Man Utd win FA Cup". BBC Sport. 22 May 2004. Archived from the original on 25 February 2009. Retrieved 9 July 2010.  
  ^ McNulty, Phil (16 May 2009). "Man Utd 0–0 Arsenal". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 19 May 2009. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  
  ^ "New blue kit for 08/09". Manchester United. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 18 January 2012. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ Bartram, Steve (19 November 2009). "OT100 #9: Record gate". Manchester United. Archived from the original on 16 December 2011. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ "Fans' Forum". Manchester United. Archived from the original on 14 August 2011. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ Smith, Martin (15 April 2008). "Bitter rivals do battle". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ Rohrer, Finlo (21 August 2007). "Scouse v Manc". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ Aldred, Tanya (22 January 2004). "Rivals uncovered". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 7 November 2015.  
  ^ Ingle, Sean; Murray, Scott (10 May 2000). "Knowledge Unlimited". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 28 October 2009. Retrieved 11 November 2022.  
  ^ Hughes, Ian (23 January 2010). "Man Utd 4–0 Hull". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 27 March 2012. Retrieved 26 January 2010.  
  ^ "Gore goes out on loan". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. 23 January 2024. Retrieved 24 January 2024.  
  ^ "Oyedele clinches loan move". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. 17 January 2024. Archived from the original on 17 January 2024. Retrieved 17 January 2024.  
  ^ Red Football Shareholder Limited: Group of companies' accounts made up to 30 June 2009. Downloaded from Companies House UK  
  ^ "Board of Directors". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Archived from the original on 12 June 2023. Retrieved 1 July 2013.  
  Further reading  
  Andrews, David L., ed. (2004). Manchester United: A Thematic Study. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-33333-7.  
  Barnes, Justyn; Bostock, Adam; Butler, Cliff; Ferguson, Jim; Meek, David; Mitten, Andy; Pilger, Sam; Taylor, Frank OBE; Tyrrell, Tom (2001) [1998]. The Official Manchester United Illustrated Encyclopedia (3rd ed.). London: Manchester United Books. ISBN 978-0-233-99964-7.  
  Bose, Mihir (2007). Manchester Disunited: Trouble and Takeover at the World's Richest Football Club. London: Aurum Press. ISBN 978-1-84513-121-0.  
  Crick, Michael; Smith, David (1990). Manchester United – The Betrayal of a Legend. London: Pan Books. ISBN 978-0-330-31440-4.  
  Devlin, John (2005). True Colours: Football Kits from 1980 to the Present Day. London: A & C Black. ISBN 978-0-7136-7389-0.  
  Dobson, Stephen; Goddard, John (2004). "Ownership and Finance of Professional Soccer in England and Europe". In Fort, Rodney; Fizel, John (eds.). International Sports Economics Comparisons. Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers. ISBN 978-0-275-98032-0.  
  Hamil, Sean (2008). "Case 9: Manchester United: the Commercial Development of a Global Football Brand". In Chadwick, Simon; Arth, Dave (eds.). International Cases in the Business of Sport. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann. ISBN 978-0-7506-8543-6.  
  Inglis, Simon (1996) [1985]. Football Grounds of Britain (3rd ed.). London: CollinsWillow. ISBN 978-0-00-218426-7.  
  James, Gary (2008). Manchester: A Football History. Halifax: James Ward. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5.  
  Morgan, Steve (March 2010). McLeish, Ian (ed.). "Design for life". Inside United (212). ISSN 1749-6497.  
  Murphy, Alex (2006). The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. ISBN 978-0-7528-7603-0.  
  Shury, Alan; Landamore, Brian (2005). The Definitive Newton Heath F.C. SoccerData. ISBN 978-1-899468-16-4.  
  Tyrrell, Tom; Meek, David (1996) [1988]. The Hamlyn Illustrated History of Manchester United 1878–1996 (5th ed.). London: Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-59074-3.  
  White, Jim (2008). Manchester United: The Biography. London: Sphere. ISBN 978-1-84744-088-4.  
  White, John (2007) [2005]. The United Miscellany (2nd ed.). London: Carlton Books. ISBN 978-1-84442-745-1.  
  External links  
  Official website (in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Japanese, Korean, and Spanish)  
  Manchester United History  
  Manchester United Football Club is a professional football club that competes in the Premier League, the top flight of English football. The club is based in Greater Manchester but has a large global following. The Manchester United History is renowned for being one of the best in world football. They have won the most trophies in English club football, including:  
  Manchester United History Overview  
  The rich Manchester United History starts in 1878 where they were first formed, albeit under a different name – Newton Heath LYR (Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway). By 1902 Newton Heath was £2,670 in debt and faced a winding-up order. Because of this, shareholders of the club announced that four local businessmen were willing to take over the club’s debts. The Football League approved the plan and Newton Heath became Manchester United.  
  Players within the Manchester United History  
  Throughout the years, Manchester United have produced a large list of world class football players. Who is the best ever player for Manchester United? This is an argument many football fanatics have had for years. Some of Manchester United’s most talented players include Roy Keane, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney, Eric Cantona, Duncan Edwards, Paul Scholes, Dennis Law, Bobby Charlton, George Best and Ryan Giggs.  
  Historic Games  
  Manchester United were most successful in the Sir Alex Ferguson era, recording some iconic, mouth watering football games. This includes the late Champions League win against Bayern Munich in 1999, the record breaking 1-0 win over LDU Quito in Yokohama in 2008 to become the first English side to become FIFA Club World Cup winners. Although It’s been a tumultuous decade for Manchester United, they’ve had some iconic post Sir Alex Ferguson games along the way. In 2019, Manchester United were trailing Paris Saint Germain 2-0 going into the second leg of the tie. Remarkably, Manchester United beat PSG thanks to a very late Marcus Rashford penalty.  
  Stadium Development History  
  The Old Trafford stadium, commonly known as ‘The Theatre of Dreams,’ originally opened on February 19, 1910 with a capacity of approximately 80,000. During the Second World War, Old Trafford was used by the military as a depot. On March 11, 1941 the stadium got heavily damaged by a German bombing raid. The stadium was rebuilt following the war and reopened on August 24, 1949. After a series of additions between 1950 to early 1980, the capacity at Old Trafford reached 56,385 in 1985. The conversion of the stadium to an all-seater reduced capacity to approximately 44,000 by 1992, the lowest in its history. Thereafter, they began to expand the capacity throughout the stadium, bringing it to approximately 58,000 by 1996, approximately 68,000 by 2000, and approximately 76,000 in 2006. The current capacity at Old Trafford is 75,454.  
  Ownership within the Manchester United History  
  Manchester United is currently under the ownership of The Glazers family. This was possible due to American tycoon Malcolm Glazer who during 2003-05, acquired United by gradually talking over the Shareholders. This cost him around 750 Million Euros. After his death in 2014, Joel and Avram Glazer were made the club’s co-chairman who are currently handling the 3.81 Billion Dollars’ worth Club on their shoulders.  
  Managerial History  
  From the beginning of the club’s official managerial records in 1892 to the start of the 2018–19 season, Manchester United have had 22 full-time managers. The current manager is Ralf Rangnick who took over as interim manager from caretaker Michael Carrick on 3 December 2021, himself replacing Ole Gunnar Solskjær on 21 November 2021. The longest-serving and most successful person to manage Manchester United is Sir Alex Ferguson, who’s managerial reign lasted over 26 years.  
  Manchester United FC  
  Manchester United is one of the most prestigious football clubs and has always maintained a distinguished tradition, a record of consistent success, and a great history. They are together with Liverpool, England's most successful football clubs ever. "The Red Devils" have more national titles than Liverpool, but the rival has collected more titles in international tournaments.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1878 Country: England City: Manchester  
  Home grounds  
  North Road (1978-1880) Bank Street (1893-1910) Old Trafford (1910-)  
  Prominent players  
  Stan Pearson, Johhny Carey, Duncan Edwards, Bobby Charlton, Dennis Viollet, George Best, Denis Law, Gordon Strachan, Bryan Robson, Mark Hughes, Peter Schmeichel, Eric Cantona, Roy Keane, Ryan Giggs, Andy Cole, Dwight Yorke, David Beckham, Paul Scholes, Rio Ferdinand, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney, Robin van Persie, Nemanja Vidic, Zlatan Ibrahimović  
  Club records  
  Most games played: Ryan Giggs (963) Top goalscorer: Bobby Charlton (249)  
  Celebration after FA Cup victory in 1983.  
  History  
  Manchester was one of the fastest growing cities during the Industrial Revolution and much so due to a torrent of workers arriving from different parts of the British Islands. From a relatively small town in the beginning of the 19th century, Manchester had passed one million inhabits by 1900 and had become one of the biggest cities in Europe. It was great conditions for football clubs to emerge; the sport was after all, in its early history to a big degree dominated by workers. The club that later would become Manchester United FC was initially founded in the year 1878, named as Newton Heath L&YR Football Club. L&YR as in Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, which were the company there the team's player worked. The team played in the Football League for the very first time in 1892 (they should not be confused with Manchester Football Club, founded in 1860 and participated in the FA Cup in the 1870s before shifting to Rugby). But, they were relegated after two years. Next, a new group of local businessmen then took over the roles and responsibilities of the club and named it as Manchester United in 1902. The newly named club won the title of English League in 1908 under the guidance of Ernest Mangnall. The first FA Cup trophy was obtained the following year. The team then shifted to the current stadium, Old Trafford in 1910. After the Second World War, the club had witnessed an extended spell with the appointment of Matt Busby in 1945. This visionary leader completely reshaped the club and placed a new faith in youngsters, and this strategy eventually proved to be astonishingly successful. The United team would win the league in 1955–56 and 1956–57. The average age were 21 at the first occasion, which made it the youngest side ever to win the Football League and earned them the nickname the “Busby Babes”.  
  The plane crash  
  One day in 1958 is especially marked in dark colors for the in the history of Manchester United. After a game against Red Star Belgrade in European Cup the United team was flying back to England then disaster struck. After a refuel in Munich the plane crash at the start and eight players and three members of the staff died. But the coach survived the plane crash and he eventually built another great side that won many championship trophies and witnessed poignant victories over the time.  
  Advertisement  
  Shifts of management  
  After that, the team played under Tommy Docherty, who was even more conducive to success. Nevertheless, in 1977 Docherty was replaced by Dave Sexton, who was more cautious. In 1981, he was replaced by Ron Atkinson. Man United line up 1985 FA Cup final v. Everton (1-0).  
  The Alex Ferguson era  
  The club appointed Alex Ferguson as manager in the year 1986. Though it can be pretty hard to believe, however, the first years of Ferguson's coaching were extremely difficult until the team won a victory in the FA Cup in 1990. Over the next twenty years, the club won at least 25 major trophies, including around eleven League titles. Manchester United won the first Double in the year of 1994. Next, it became the first English club to win a Treble while winning the FA Cup, the Premier League, and UEFA Champions League simultaneously during 1998-1999. The team continued the fabulous upswing by beating Palmeiras to become the club world champions. Man United line up in CL final 1999 v. Bayern Munich (2-1).  
  United won three consecutive league titles during the period 1999-2001. One of the most astonishing records is from the 1999/2000 season then they won the league with a 18 points margin.  
  Glazer takeover and "Merchandise United"  
  Between 2003 and 2005, the American businessman Malcolm Glazer bought enough shares to become the new owner of the Manchester club. The new ownership was remarkable unpopular among the fans. But despite the controversial turmoil after the takeover of the Glazer family, the team continued to grow as a great team while maintaining its esteemed tradition and having a huge international follower base. During 2013-2014, it was recognized as the 2nd highest-earning club across the world with an estimated revenue of around €518 million. In fact, it was further named as the third most valuable football club in 2015. The club has been clever in marketing its brand in many fields. Manchester United have been the most successful soccer team in the world to earn money from brand-name products, which have earned them the not so flattering nickname "Merchandise United".  
  Post-Ferguson: period of decline  
  When Alex Ferguson departed permanently from the post he had 1986-2013 the team's result would decline. None of David Moyes, Ryan Giggs and the reputable Louis van Gaal, in the manager role, could repeat the successful Ferguson formula.  
  For the 2016/2017 season José Mourinho was appointed a manager with three years contract. This was a state of the club's ambition to continue to expand its capacity, maintain its on-field success and unbeatable winning record and hold its royal legacy.  
  By Oscar Anderson  
  Advertisement  
  Logo  
  The upper part of the inner shield of the Manchester United crest displays a ship that actually originates from the Manchester City Council coat of arms (a ship can likewise be found on Manchester City’s logo). Below the ship, there is a bigger drawing depicting a devil – the devil was first incorporated on the crest in 1970. A minor change was done in 1998 when "Football Club" was removed from the bottom banner. Instead, the banners only text out "Manchester United".  
  Manchester United FC timeline  
  1878 The club is established (named as Newton Heath). 1883 The first competition takes place against Blackburn Olympic Reserves. 1892 First season in the Football League. 1902 The club is renamed as Manchester United. 1908 First time Division 1 champions. 1909 Winning their first FA Cup title. 1910 The club move to the Old Trafford. 1958 Several club members are killed in an air plane crash. 1960 Dennis Viollet sets a new record with 32 league goals in a season. 1963 Italian Carlo Sartori is signed as the first non-British player. 1968 First European Cup title. 1980 Martin Edwards become chairman of the club. 1986 Alex Ferguson is appointed as manager. 1991 First Cup Winners' Cup title. 1991 Manchester United PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange. 1992 First League Cup title. 1994 Winning their first Double (the League and the FA Cup). 1995 Winning 9–0 against Ipswich Town, a new record winning margin. 1998 Jaap Stam becomes the first player to be transferred for a fee over £10 million. 1999 First Champions League title. 1999 Winning their first Treble (the League, the FA Cup and the Champions League). 2007 The highest attendance is recorded at Old Trafford (76,098 against Blackburn Rovers). 2009 Cristiano Ronaldo is sold to Real Madrid for an £80 million fee. 2017 First time Europa League winners.  
  More from Football  
  Latest  
  Content type  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  England manager Gareth Southgate says he won't speak to any clubs about jobs ahead of Euro 2024.  
  The FA Cup semi-finals schedule has been revealed with Man City and their opponents Chelsea, plus Man Utd and Coventry, finding out when they'll meet at Wembley...  
  Gareth Southgate has been linked with replacing Erik ten Hag at Manchester United this summer - but would he be a good fit at Old Trafford?  
  Gerard Pique has fronted several ventures but having hung up his boots following 18 years at the top of the professional game, he is confident he has backed a winner.  
  With the Premier League reaching its final stretch of games, we take a look at where each team are compared to this stage last season...  
  Sky Sports' Peter Smith discusses Erik ten Hag's position in charge of Man Utd and whether it is under threat with new Man Utd investor Sir Jim Ratcliffe reportedly considering hiring England boss Gareth Southgate.  
  Police have charged a man in relation to alleged tragedy chanting during Manchester United's FA Cup victory over Liverpool at Old Trafford.  
  Sir Jim Ratcliffe says he would rather find the next Kylian Mbappe for Manchester United than pay a fortune for the France forward.  
  Peter Smith and Nick Wright discuss whether Manchester United’s dramatic 4-3 win against Liverpool in the FA Cup is the turning point for their season.  
  Kobbie Mainoo and ‘the arrogance of timing’ – former Man Utd coach explains why midfielder appears to have so much time on the ball  
  Sky Sports' Peter Stevenson and Adam Bate react to Manchester United's thrilling 4-3 win over Liverpool in the FA Cup quarter-finals.  
  Man Utd's trip to Bournemouth will now take place on April 13, while Arsenal's clash with Aston Villa has been moved to April 14, with both fixtures live on Sky Sports.  
  Greater Manchester Police say one person has been charged among eight arrests following an instance of tragedy chanting during Manchester United vs Liverpool.  
  Manchester United manager Erik ten Hag praised Amad Diallo after his late winner in extra time won them their FA Cup quarter-final against Liverpool.  
  Jurgen Klopp was ruffled by a reporter's "dumb question" after Liverpool lost an FA Cup epic to Manchester United.  
  Photo by Simon Stacpoole/Offside/Offside via Getty Images  
  Manchester United now looking to appoint 40-year-old former Liverpool coach this summer  
  It may not only be Liverpool looking for a new manager among the top clubs in the Premier League this summer. Chelsea could also explore the market to find a replacement for Mauricio Pochettino. Meanwhile, Manchester United could move on from Erik ten Hag as well.  
  The Dutch manager may have beaten Liverpool recently, but he has struggled to inspire United supporters. And if he cannot secure Champions League football for next season, Liverpool’s rivals may look to find an alternative solution elsewhere.  
  That means Liverpool will enter a difficult market. Where plenty of clubs will be vying for the best and brightest young managers in the game. The latest reports seem to even suggest that Manchester United will be looking to hire a very promising former Liverpool coach.  
  When did Gary O’Neil coach at Liverpool? And who says United want to appoint him?  
  According to ESPN, Manchester United are looking to enter talks with Gary O’Neil about potentially becoming a coach at the club. Although the report claims it is uncertain whether this role would be the managerial position at Old Trafford.  
  O’Neil has done a fantastic job at Wolverhampton this season and is currently in contention to qualify the team to a European competition next season. That would be remarkable achievement considering O’Neil lost several key players, and only took over the club at the start of the season, without any proper pre-season preparation.  
  O’Neil’s appointment could be particularly fascinating because of his previous affiliation to Liverpool. The 40-year-old actually started out his coaching career at Liverpool. O’Neil was invited to the club by Michael Edwards, with whom he shares a close relationship stemming from their time at Portsmouth. At Liverpool, O’Neil worked at the club’s U21 side as an assistant manager before moving onto pastures new at Bournemouth.  
  Now, with Manchester United’s interest, the fact that O’Neil once worked at Liverpool could be an interesting little caveat. Especially, since he is known to be both close with Richard Hughes and Michael Edwards, who have both returned to Liverpool recently.  
  Manchester United granted permission by UEFA to participate in European competition alongside Nice, despite fears over multi-club ownership  
  Share this with  
  Manchester United have been assured that they will be able to participate in Euoprean competition next season, despite Sir Jim Ratcliffe’s ownership of Ligue 1 club Nice.  
  Under UEFA ruling, two clubs owned by the same owners cannot compete in European competition.  
  The rules stipulate that only one of the two clubs would be able to participate, and that the higher finishing side should be granted entry.  
  As it stands, Nice are fifth in Ligue 1 while United are sixth in the Premier League, meaning the French club would be granted entry to the Europa League over United.  
  Under these circumstances, United would then drop into the Europa Conference League.  
  But the Daily Mail say that UEFA have assured United that they can enter the competition provided they prove there is no overlapping control of both clubs, which would undermine the integrity of the competition.  
  Ratcliffe took over Nice in 2018, while he only has a co-ownership stake in United of 27.7%.  
  Given Ratcliffe has spent just two months at Old Trafford, UEFA are likely to be satisfied that there is not a deep relationship between the two clubs.  
  United still have hopes of qualifying for the Champions League but they trail Aston Villa by nine points, having played a game fewer.  
  Manchester United set to avoid European ban after talks with UEFA  
  Man Utd's participation in European competition next season had been placed in jeopardy as a result of UEFA's multi-club ownership rules.  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Manchester United are confident they will be allowed to compete in European competition next season despite a potential conflict of interest over Ineos's multi-club model, with Ligue 1 side Nice also on track to qualify for Europe.  
  UEFA have attempted to crack down on multi-club ownership and their latest rules stipulate that if two clubs from the same ownership group qualify for the same competition, only one will be allowed to enter. With United and Nice both of course to qualify for the Europa League, that could present an issue.  
  The current regulations state the highest-ranked side would be given priority and, with Nice currently fifth and United in sixth, it would mean the French side go into the Europa League, with United likely to drop into the Conference League.  
  Ineos are majority stakeholders in Nice, while Sir Jim Ratcliffe's 28% investment into United was officially ratified earlier this year. To be allowed to compete in the same European competition, Ineos would need to prove to UEFA that there is enough detachment between the two clubs. They will have until June 3 to show UEFA that is the case.  
  Ratcliffe's team have been talking to UEFA ever since a deal to become minority shareholders in United was agreed and United have been encouraged by those discussions.  
  There were three cases of partner clubs being investigated over "potential conflict with the multi-club ownership rule" at the end of last season, but UEFA's Club Financial Control Body (CFCB) cleared all cases, allowing the six clubs involved to play. Brighton and Aston Villa were both affected as part of their ownership models, with Brighton having shares in Union Saint-Gilloise in Belgium and Villa part-owning Vitoria in Portugal.  
  In clearing the clubs to compete UEFA laid out the reasons for their decisions, which included a significant reduction of shareholding in the clubs in some cases, changes to the financing of the clubs and representatives on the board and bans on the sharing of data and transfers.  
  That has shown United that there is a way around UEFA's rules and they are confident that they can show the governing body that there is enough distance between themselves and Nice to avoid a conflict.  
  If both teams qualify for the same competition then UEFA are likely to open proceedings against them, with the case referred to the CFCB, but there is a reluctance to kick clubs out of Europe, which is why they have worked with those involved in previous cases to find a solution. They are likely to lay down a series of conditions that Ineos must meet concerning the running of United and Nice.  
  UEFA have not changed the rules for multi-club ownership but send a letter to participating clubs every year that outlines the rules. If United and Nice competed in the same competition and United were barred, they would have the option to appeal at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. UEFA sources privately concede United would likely win any judgement.  
  Ratcliffe was quizzed last month on a potential issue around multi-club ownership preventing either United or Nice from playing in Europe next season and was insistent it wouldn't be a problem.  
  "No, there are no circumstances upon which an ownership of Nice would prevent Manchester United from playing in the Champions League. I’ll be crystal clear on that," he said.  
  "It says you have to change the ownership structure, you know. So it’s all about influence and positions on the board and that sort of thing. A: the rules are changing, and B: there are shades of grey not black and white. Manchester City will probably have the problem before we have the problem because they’ve obviously got Girona.  
  "We have spoken to UEFA and I have to say the conversation wasn’t directed at, 'you have to solve this problem and you know we don’t like it'. We have an issue and we might have to change some things. But what they do recognise is that the multi-club model in many circumstances benefits the smaller club quite a lot.  
  "They do have a concern that if they stop the multi-club model then you take away quite a lot from the smaller club. Because the smaller club benefits a lot from the bigger club. So that’s a good thing. But what they’re worried about is if there’s ever an accusation that somebody influences the result of a game - lack of integrity. That’s the most concerning thing.  
  "We’ve never spent time really understanding the benefits of a multi-club. But we’ve got Omar obviously, who’s been intimately involved in a really successful multi-club, which is Manchester City. So we need to spend a bit of time with Omar trying to understand it a bit better before we finish up with a view.  
  "I think my inclination is positive towards multi-clubs, not negative towards multi-clubs. We haven’t spent enough time understanding all the details of it yet. Also, the UEFA thing is changing so you have to do it in the light of where you think UEFA is going to finish up, what the handicaps are. There are obviously handicaps involved."  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  → Football League 1/2 Relegation/Promotion Test Matches  
  1990-1991. Manchester United were deducted 1 point for their role in a brawl during their home fixture against Arsenal.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  You are here: FB Home Page > Squads > Manchester United Stats, Records and History  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  Man City 3-1 Man Utd: Player ratings as Jess Park double secures WSL derby victory  
  Two strikes from Jess Park secured a 3-1 win for Man City over Man Utd  
  City make it 12 straight WSL victories after winning Manchester derby  
  The Cityzens secure their place at the top of the WSL table  
  City secure their place at the top of the WSL / James Gill - Danehouse/GettyImages  
  Manchester City painted the town blue on Saturday with a comfortable win over Manchester United, securing their position at the top of the WSL table.  
  Two first-half goals from Jess Park set the tone for City, who looked strong enough to dictate the outcome of the game throughout. United's defence faltered under the strength of City's attack, making it an easy pickings for the hosts' front three.  
  City cruised to the top of the WSL table, applying more pressure for chasers Chelsea ahead of their clash with West Ham on Sunday.  
  How the game unfolded  
  United looked to be dictating play during the opening minutes of the game. Despite being yet to beat a team in the WSL's top three so far this season, they looked organised, confident on the ball and had a clear gameplan to threaten City in wide areas.  
  The skill and strength of Geyse set Nikita Parris up well for a powerful shot inside the box. However, a stunning save from goalkeeper Khiara Keating prevented the Red Devils from earning a mark on the score sheet - an event that seemed to alter the rest of their game.  
  Hannah Blundell seemed set for a double booking after first conducting a high tackle on Mary Fowler, and then just moments later impeding Khadija Shaw. Referee Abigal Byrne gave her the benefit of the doubt for the latter offence, allowing Blundell to stay on the pitch.  
  Then, life-long City fan Park changed the direction of the game, earning two quick-fire goals in the before half-time - the first being her debut goal for City in a WSL fixture.  
  Just 30 seconds after the half-time restart, Shaw bagged a third for City, earning her 68th goal for the club and making her their all-time leading goalscorer.  
  Two changes were made for United, with Parris swapped for Rachel Williams and Jayde Riviere brought off for Aoife Mannion. When the 78th minute rolled around, the Red Devils were finally able to secure their first goal of the game, albeit in the form of an own goal from Kerstin Casparij.  
  One goal was just not enough though as City continued to cruise to a Manchester derby victory.  
  Man City player ratings (4-3-3)  
  Park delivered her first goals in a WSL game for City / James Gill - Danehouse/GettyImages  
  GK: Khiara Keating - 8/10 - A shame not to earn a clean sheet, but ultimately a strong player in the City squad.  
  RB: Kerstin Casparij - 4/10 - Was okay in the first half, but loses points after her deflection gave United a goal.  
  CB: Alanna Kennedy - 6/10 - A late change after Laia Aleixandri picked up an injury in the warm-up, had some useful aerial contributions.  
  CB: Alex Greenwood - 6/10 - Picked up yet another head injury here but was able to return to her feet.  
  LB: Leila Ouahabi - 7/10 - Very good, stayed tight to defenders when needed and provided a great assist for City's first goal.  
  CM: Jess Park - 10/10 - Sensational. Composed, professional, deserving.  
  CM: Yui Hasegawa - 8/10 - Managed to get everywhere on the pitch and rarely lost the ball, strong.  
  CM: Laura Coombs - 4/10 - Relatively silent and didn't provide much.  
  RW: Mary Fowler - 5/10 - Would've been better down the middle rather than on the right, but good effort.  
  CF: Khadija Shaw - 8/10 - Excellent, always a standout figure in this team.  
  LW: Lauren Hemp - 8/10 - Really can do it all, vital for this team.  
  Substitutes  
  SUB: Filippa Angeldal (83' for Laura Coombs) - N/A  
  SUB: Esme Morgan (87' for Leila Ouahabi) - N/A  
  Subs not used: Sandy MacIver (GK) Chloe Kelly, Demi Stokes, Laura Blindkilde, Poppy Pritchard, Ruby Mace, Stephanie Houghton  
  Manager  
  Gareth Taylor - 7/10 - Didn't make use of subs until the final 10 minutes of the game, but dealt with United well.  
  Man Utd player ratings (4-2-3-1)  
  United suffered a derby day loss / Naomi Baker/GettyImages  
  GK: Mary Earps: 4/10 - Wasn't able to keep out City's attacks, a poor effort between the sticks.  
  RB: Jayde Riviere: 6/10 - Picked up an injury which took her off just before the hour mark.  
  CB: Maya Le Tissier: 3/10 - Terrible defending made it easy for City to reach United's final third and score.  
  CB: Millie Turner: 5/10 - No standout moments, though got caught flat-footed for the third goal.  
  LB: Hannah Blundell: 2/10 - Shockingly poor today. Was seconds from being hauled off the pitch for a second bookable offence.  
  DM: Lisa Naalsund: 5/10 - Tried hard high up the pitch but that was all.  
  DM: Katie Zelem: 5/10 - Not fantastic today, looked terrible at times in the middle.  
  RW: Lucia Garcia: 6/10 - Picked up some pace in the second half but had nothing to show for it.  
  AM: Ella Toone: 4/10 - Didn't make much noise, was no threat for City's defence.  
  LW: Geyse: 7/10 - Good effort, worked hard to create chances but had no one to finish them.  
  ST: Nikita Parris: 7/10 - Played well and had good chances, needed more support up front.  
  Substitutes  
  SUB: Aoife Mannion (57' for Jayde Riviere) - 6/10  
  SUB: Rachel Williams (58' for Nikita Parris) - 6/10  
  SUB: Melvine Mallard (85' for Ella Toone) - N/A  
  Subs not used: Phallon Tullis-Joyce, Alyssa Aherne, Evie Rabjohn, Gemma Evans, Hayley Ladd, Irene  
  Manager  
  Marc Skinner - 3/10 - Knew City's attack high up the pitch would be fierce yet did nothing to combat it.  
  Player of the match - Jess Park (Man City)  
  It was Park's day / James Gill - Danehouse/GettyImages  
  READ THE LATEST WSL NEWS, QUOTES, PREVIEWS & MATCH RATINGS HERE  
  Man City moment explains why Manchester United might want Gary O’Neil  
  The latest Manchester United news as the club have been linked with an interest in the Wolves manager who has impressed with the job he has done at Molineux.  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Speculation over Erik ten Hag’s future at Manchester United and possible replacements for the manager continues to bubbles since the takeover by Sir Jim Ratcliffe, with Wolves boss Gary O’Neil the latest to be linked.  
  It is claimed by ESPN that United ‘want to speak’ to the manager about a role in a new coaching set-up. It’s not specified what that role would be, although it could potentially be the head coach role, given his success in charge of both Bournemouth and Wolves over the last two seasons.  
  O’Neil has led Wolves to ninth place in the Premier League table so far this season. It comes after a campaign where they were looking over their shoulder towards the relegation places.  
  He arrived at Molineux in the summer after controversially being shown the door at Bournemouth. The decision came after he steered the Cherries to Premier League safety.  
  His achievements with the two clubs have caught the eye, with some even suggesting he should be in the conversation among candidates for the manager of the season award in the Premier League. But it may be one thing in particular that O’Neil brings to a role that United are looking for.  
  Speaking on Sky Sports’ Monday Night Football back in October on how he set his Wolves side up to earn a shock result against Man City, O'Neill explained the specific game plan set up to combat Pep Guardiola's side. He said: “I don’t want it to sound like it was a genius plan because it wasn’t, it was a group of players who understood it really, really well.  
  “We tried to keep Daws (Craig Dawson) som cover against (Erling) Haaland, we backed (Max) Kilman when we could until we got down around the goal and we got in a position we knew Daws was comfortable in and Daws would be fine to manage Haaland at that moment. We tried to drop down and reduce the spaces, as most teams do against Manchester City but then we were able to be aggressive from our back five.”  
  The element of his players understanding his instructions well is something that seems to be a strength of O’Neil’s. Speaking to Sky Sports, Wolves defender Toti Gomes praised his manager for the way he gets plans across clearly.  
  "There are little details, the way he explains it, and it really makes a difference,” he said, “When he has been teaching us on the training pitch, it has been very easy to get the information so that afterwards when we go to the pitch, we can do it very easily."  
  With the talent at United’s disposal, having a clear plan for games and a way of getting that over to the players in a way that they can understand could be key for any new manager who comes in. If he can get the best out of players tactically, then that can only be a good thing that could leave United as a force to be reckoned with.  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Share this with  
  Manchester United have grown ‘angry’ and frustrated over Hannibal Mejbri’s apparent poor treatment at Sevilla, with the midfielder badly struggling for minutes this season.  
  Mejbri made just five Premier League appearances under Erik ten Hag in the first half of the campaign and subsequently completed a January loan move to Sevilla in the hope of securing regular game-time in one of Europe’s top leagues.  
  But Mejbri has played just four times in La Liga, amounting to a total of just 89 minutes, under former Watford manager Quique Sanchez Flores and the 21-year-old was reportedly involved in a training ground bust-up not long after joining.  
  After Mejbri was left out of Sevilla’s squad for their Copa del Rey clash with Atletico Madrid, Flores attempted to justify his decision, stating, ‘He has to understand what the club is’, and he has barely featured since.  
  Mejbri was handed a rare start in the side’s 3-2 win over Real Sociedad earlier this month but the Tunisia international appeared well off the pace, repeatedly giving away possession, and was substituted after just 53 minutes.  
  According to Spanish outlet AS, Sevilla have ‘angered’ United and the disastrous loan could ’cause a problem’ when the club try to attract players from the Premier League in the future, with Tottenham’s Alejo Veliz experiencing similar problems.  
  It’s claimed Mejbri’s severe lack of playing time at Sevilla ‘does not sit well at all’ with Old Trafford chiefs, especially given the youngster could have joined several English clubs instead in January.  
  Reports earlier this month suggested Mejbri’s entourage were ‘in disbelief’ over the player’s situation and ‘could not believe’ how little he had featured in Flores’ plans over recent weeks.  
  There are concerns that Mejbri’s confidence has taken a serious knock and it’s feared his development may actually have gone backwards since leaving the Red Devils on loan over the winter.  
  Sevilla have an €18m (£15m) option to buy Mejbri outright but, unsurprisingly, the club have no intention of making the Tunisian’s switch permanent when his loan deal expires.  
  Mejbri, a former France Under-17 international, put pen to paper a new contract with United before joining Sevilla on loan, tying him to the Theatre of Dreams until 2025.  
  Ten Hag has spoken highly of Mejbri and said the young midfielder was setting an example to the rest of United’s squad after he made consecutive starts for the first time back in September.  
  ‘I think he gives a very good message to the rest of the squad that this is the demand, this has to be the standard when you are playing in a position, what you have to bring to the team, to get success,’ Ten Hag told reporters at the time.  
  ‘Especially when you’re playing against possession-based teams; he is a really good fit, to give a good contribution to a good performance and to the result. I don’t think [his adaptation has been] that quick.  
  ‘Before I came in here, he was already in the first team, he made his debut. Last year he was on loan and this year he is making progress.  
  ‘So that’s why he deserved an opportunity and I think now he’s taking that opportunity. Every time he has to improve and he had to give the evidence that he is worthy of playing. But that counts for everyone, every player in the squad.  
  ‘There are situations where players are ahead, but it’s good that the internal competition is there and hopefully it gives other players a push that they have to bring more, they have to add more. Because he did a great job for the team, he really contributed to our levels in the last two games.’  
  FA Cup semi-final date confirmed  
  Adam Marshall  
  Friday 22 March 2024 16:30  
  Share With email  
  The fixture details for Manchester United's Emirates FA Cup semi-final with Coventry City have been announced.  
  The big game is being held at Wembley Stadium on Sunday 21 April, kicking off at 15:30 BST, with the FA stating this decision was agreed with the clubs, the local authority, members of the Safety Advisory Group and broadcasters.  
  Extra-time and penalties will take place, if required, as we meet up again with former Reds striker Mark Robins, who scored the winner of our 1990 FA Cup semi-final replay against Oldham Athletic.  
  Robins is the Coventry manager and steered the Championship club past Wolves in a thrilling quarter-final tie at Molineux.  
  120 in 20 | We’ve got a feeling the extended highlights edit from the FA Cup quarter-final will be a popular watch…  
  The last time the clubs played each other competitively was in 2007, when the Sky Blues knocked Sir Alex Ferguson's men out of the League Cup at Old Trafford, with a brace from Malta international Michael Mifsud.  
  Current Red Jonny Evans made his senior debut for the club in that fixture.  
  We also lost our most recent FA Cup tie with the West Midlanders, with competition specialist Keith Houchen netting the only goal at the Theatre of Dreams in 1987, the year John Sillett's side famously lifted the trophy.  
  However, United are unbeaten in the other five FA Cup meetings with Coventry, winning four of those.  
  The other semi-final pits Manchester City against Chelsea, who are looking to reach a second domestic final of the season under Mauricio Pochettino.  
  The two Manchester clubs had never previously took part in a major final but there is now, of course, the possibility it could happen for the second year in succession.  
  That game will also be held at Wembley, kicking off at 17:15 BST on Saturday 20 April.  
  Access All Areas | There are so many little things you will love in this unseen footage from Sunday's rip-roaring tie...  
  EMIRATES FA CUP SEMI-FINALS  
  Saturday 20 April  
  Manchester City v Chelsea (17:15 BST) Live on BBC One, BBC iPlayer and BBC Sport  
  Sunday 21 April  
  Coventry City v UNITED (15:30 BST) Live on ITV1, UTV, STV and ITVX  
  Recommended:  
  Full 120 | The greatest Old Trafford game ever? You’ll want to watch every kick, over and over and over again…  
  The footage of the final 14 minutes, from Rashford’s equaliser to Amad’s winner and celebrations, is just amazing…  
  After almost a month away, Brentford return to Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday to take on Manchester United. The game kicks off at 8pm and will be broadcast live on Sky Sports.  
  Thomas Frank's side lost 2-1 to Burnley last time out, while United are boosted by a dramatic 4-3 victory over Liverpool in the FA Cup.  
  Analysis, team news, match officials and more. Here's everything you need to know ahead of the Bees' latest Premier League clash.  
  Pre-match Analysis  
  Richard Cole, Playmaker Stats: United have displayed Jekyll and Hyde tendencies this season  
  A superb performance saw Brentford come incredibly close to victory at Old Trafford earlier this season before Scott McTominay's late double.  
  Thomas Frank will be hoping his team have learned a valuable lesson from that game as the Bees welcome Manchester United to Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday.  
  And while it would be nice to have another performance like the 4-0 thumping that Brentford dished out to United early last season, with this opposition you really have no idea what to expect.  
  The Red Devils' epic morale-boosting win over rivals Liverpool in the FA Cup just before the international break is an ideal case study for a team full of inconsistencies.  
  United came out of the traps flying in that game with a goal from Brentford's familiar foe McTominay.  
  But teams have shown it’s possible to get at this Manchester United midfield, who often give up ground to the opposition despite having talents like Bruno Fernandes, Casemiro and new England international Kobbie Mainoo.  
  It's not too surprising then that Red Devils have conceded an average of 16.7 shots per game this season, behind only Luton Town (17.3) and Sheffield United (17.9). For context, Brentford have conceded 14.8 shots per game this term.  
  A quickfire double put Liverpool ahead before the break in that FA Cup tie, with the United defence making some familiar mistakes. Ivan Toney, Yoane Wissa, Neal Maupay and Bryan Mbeumo will no doubt be prepared to pounce on any more.  
  United have had to manage with several injuries in defence this season including two vital players Lisandro Martínez and Luke Shaw absent in recent weeks.  
  Indeed, Saturday's game could have been a perfect chance for Sergio Reguilón to show the club he began this season with why they should have extended his loan stay. Unfortunately for the Spaniard, his sending off against Burnley means he'll have to watch from the stands.  
  Speaking of defensive absences, both Erik ten Hag and Thomas Frank will be able to share war stories about how much their teams have been hurt by long-term casualties this season.  
  Going back to that FA Cup classic, the Manchester side eventually won the game 4-3 with a last-gasp Amad Diallo winner late into extra-time. It was a special moment for the supporters, but the Red Devils have not been prolific in the league.  
  The Bees are currently out-scoring United in the Premier League by 41 goals to 39. In fact, United are just one of six teams to score fewer than 40 league goals and half of those six are teams currently in the relegation zone.  
  Brentford's luck has been out in recent defeats to Arsenal and Burnley, and they face something of a lottery when it comes to their next opponents.  
  Ten Hag's enigmatic United have displayed Jekyll and Hyde tendencies all season – and Frank's Bees will aim to locate the pressure points of a team that is simultaneously dangerous and fragile.  
  Scout Report  
  Impressive form puts United in the hunt for Champions League qualification  
  After the first seven Premier League games of this season, Manchester United had made their worst-ever start since the foundation of the competition in 1992 and also their worst since the 1989/90 campaign, three years into Sir Alex Ferguson’s near three-decade reign in charge at Old Trafford.  
  Throw in the intense questioning of new goalkeeper Andre Onana, allegations against winger Antony and the exclusion of Jadon Sancho from the squad – and subsequent loan back to Borussia Dortmund - and things were looking pretty bleak in M16.  
  A late, late 2-1 win over Brentford on 7 October – courtesy of two goals from Scott McTominay in second-half stoppage-time – started to get United out of their troubling rut, though.  
  “You have to find a moment in the season you can build on – I think we have found it now,” said Ten Hag after the dramatic victory. “This game reflects a lot of our season start; the mistake, but then the comeback, the personality, the character. This has to be a turning point. We know we have to change, reset.”  
  They won five of the next seven league games – albeit often unconvincingly and by narrow margins – to establish themselves in the top six, though it was perhaps a false dawn; by the end of 2023, they had dropped back into eighth and been knocked out of the Carabao Cup and the Champions League, finishing bottom of the group - after just one win in six - in the latter.  
  If ever United needed a reset, it was now. The winter break could not have arrived at a more apt time.  
  Fortunately for them, for the most part, everything has gone swimmingly so far since the turn of the year; in the 12 games Ten Hag’s side have played, they have won nine.  
  Five of those have come in the Premier League, where – despite their leaky defence – they have consolidated sixth and kept themselves in the hunt for a top-five spot that would likely seal Champions League qualification.  
  The other four have come in their perfect FA Cup run from the third round to the semi-finals, where Championship side Coventry stand between them and another final, potentially against sworn enemies Man City, who face Chelsea at the Etihad in three weeks’ time.  
  While it remains a worry, the aforementioned leaky defence would be more of an issue if the attack had not reached its most potent levels of the campaign in recent months. United have scored 28 across their last 12 games, seven of which have been scored by Rasmus Højlund, who is beginning to show just why the club paid a reported initial fee of £64 million to sign him from Atalanta last summer.  
  The fact lifelong fan Sir Jim Ratcliffe was confirmed as a minority shareholder in the club in February, and has since taken control of football operations, has certainly lifted the mood around the club.  
  The 71-year-old billionaire is talking the talk fans have not heard under the ownership of the Glazer family: plans to refurbish or rebuild Old Trafford, developing a star of the same ilk as Kylian Mbappé rather than shelling out huge sums for his signature and, perhaps most importantly for United fans, knocking Liverpool and Man City “off their perch”.  
  For now, there is positivity aplenty and targets to chase down in the final two months of another eventful season.  
  In the Dugout  
  Erik ten Hag  
  Before he became a manager, Erik ten Hag had a 13-year playing career as a centre-back in his native Netherlands, the majority of which was spent FC Twente, whom he signed for on three separate occasions. He lifted the KNVB Cup in 2000/01 and retired at De Grolsch Veste, aged 32 in 2002.  
  He spent the four years that followed his retirement as a coach in Twente’s youth set-up, before working as the first-team assistant to Fred Rutten and, later, to Steve McClaren during his first spell in charge of the Dutch club.  
  Rutten brought Ten Hag with him to PSV in 2009, helping the club to successive third-place finishes in the Eredivisie.  
  Four months after Rutten was sacked in 2012, Ten Hag was appointed as a manager in his own right for the first time at Eerste Divisie side Go Ahead Eagles, whom he led to promotion in his first and only season in charge.  
  He then moved on to Bayern Munich II, who he guided to the Regionalliga Bayern in 2013/14, with a squad that included Emre Can and Pierre-Emile Højbjerg.  
  In May 2015, he joined former club Utrecht and left after two and a half years, and a 51 per cent win ratio, to join Ajax three days after Christmas in 2017. It was at the Johan Cruyff Arena that he really started to make a name for himself.  
  In four and a half years, his team won the Eredivisie three times, the KNVB Cup twice and the Johan Cruyff Shield on one occasion, as well as reaching the semi-final of the Champions League in 2018/19 and the quarter-final of the Europa League in 2020/21.  
  Ten Hag signed a new two-year deal with Ajax in May 2021, but, 11 months later, it was announced he would become the new Manchester United manager. He later left the Dutch club earlier than expected to begin work at Old Trafford after Ralf Rangnick’s short spell in charge.  
  The Dutchman recently surpassed 100 games at the helm.  
  The Gameplan  
  With Tyrone Marshall, Manchester Evening News  
  Tyrone Marshall, senior football writer at the Manchester Evening News, explains how Erik ten Hag is likely to set up his side at Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday:  
  “Lisandro Martínez might be back, so there could be a change defensively, but I do not know if he will start, given he has been out for eight weeks. He was with Argentina during the international break, but I think that was more for training and to see his mates over there, really. Brentford might be too soon for him to start, but it will likely be a pretty similar team to the one they played against Liverpool.  
  “Højlund is back now, so I think he is going to start. United are still lacking a left-back, so that is not going to change and Aaron Wan-Bissaka or Diogo Dalot might play there.”  
  Last time out v Liverpool (4-2-3-1): Onana; Wan-Bissaka, Varane, Lindelof, Dalot; McTominay, Mainoo; Garnacho, Fernandes, Rashford; Højlund  
  Match Officials  
  Hooper handed fourth Brentford assignment of the season  
  Assistants: Adrian Holmes and Simon Long  
  Fourth official: Gavin Ward  
  Video assistant referee: Stuart Attwell  
  Experienced Wiltshire referee Simon Hooper, who tried to make it as a professional footballer in his youth, has taken charge of 29 Brentford games as both he and the Bees have worked their way up the divisions.  
  Hooper's first Brentford game came in October 2008 at Aldershot in League Two before seven Sky Bet League One assignments from 2009 to 2013 followed.  
  In the Sky Bet Championship, he was the man in charge for the Bees’ unforgettable 4-1 victory over Fulham at Craven Cottage in April 2015 and also refereed the 1-0 win at home to Queens Park Rangers in October that same year.  
  Hooper refereed two Brentford games last month: the 2-0 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers and a 4-2 defeat by West Ham United.  
  Last Meeting  
  Manchester United 2 Brentford 1 (Premier League, 7 October 2023)  
  Scott McTominay’s stoppage-time brace denied Brentford all three points at Old Trafford.  
  Mathias Jensen steered Thomas Frank’s side ahead from inside the penalty area on 26 minutes as the Bees took a deserved lead into half-time.  
  After the break, Brentford defended manfully and presented a threat on the break. Christian Nørgaard and Neal Maupay both saw efforts tipped over by Andre Onana but there was to be late heartbreak.  
  Introduced in the closing stages of normal time, McTominay drilled home an equaliser three minutes past the 90 before flicking the winner beyond Thomas Strakosha with the last action of the game.  
  Submit entries to our predictor game by 8pm on Saturday to be in with a chance to win monthly and seasonal predictor prizes!  
  Simply log in to your Bees account or create a free Bees account and head to the match centre where you can predict key match events for Brentford v Manchester United.  
  Enter every week to collect points and compete for the top spot in monthly and seasonal leaderboards.  
  Records  
  Manchester United’s all-time record holders and club statistics all in one place. Formed back in 1878 as Newton Heath, an incredible number of records and statistics have piled up in more than 100 years of history. United In Focus provides the latest news coverage and historical data, including more recent Premier League history from the modern era.  
  Cristiano Ronaldo would have made it his conquest to get Manchester United to the Champions League knockout stages this season. Manchester United and Erik ten…  
  Lazio goalkeeper Ivan Provedel scored a shock headed goal to help his side secure a draw with Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. Goalkeepers scoring…  
  Manchester United have been involved in some of the biggest transfer deals in Premier League and football history. Managers over the years have certainly known…  
  Casemiro has received two red cards for Manchester United in his first season at Old Trafford. He can consider himself particularly unlucky for both. The…  
  Manchester United is a club like no other. While this has been a lean period in recent years, United’s record of winning silverware stands up…  
  Manchester United steamrolled Leicester City 3-0 this weekend, and for Bruno Fernandes, the playmaker’s two assists made the Portuguese international the club’s new leader for…  
  There is no question Manchester United have the right man in charge with Erik ten Hag, who looks to have finally stopped the club from…  
  Manchester United have had some fantastic servants in the past. Four of Manchester United’s top six all-time highest appearance makers came in the Sir Alex…  
  Cristiano Ronaldo departed Manchester United at the end of 2022, before clinching a move as a free agent to Al Nassr. Cristiano Ronaldo was Manchester…  
  Manchester United linked to £37m defender Rio Ferdinand once recommended  
  The summer transfer window is just over the horizon and we are expecting to see Manchester United being linked with centre back after centre back.  
  United could still look further afield though and there have been plenty of rumours surrounding a potential move for Bayern Munich’s Matthijs de Ligt.  
  Erik ten Hag coached De Ligt at Ajax and a reunion may appeal to all, but what if United actually go for one of his Bayern teammates instead?  
  MORE UNITED STORIES  
  Manchester United linked with Dayot Upamecano  
  Reporter Rudy Galetti has now taken to social media to state that United are considering a number of names – including Bayern’s Dayot Upamecano.  
  Galetti claims that Upamecano is now open to a move away from Bayern this summer as he considers an experience away from the Bundesliga.  
  Upamecano first headed to Germany in 2017, joining Red Bull Salzburg from partner club RB Leipzig.  
  Upamecano’s form has been up and down at times and was recently sent off twice in a matter of days against Lazio and VfL Bochum.  
  The 25-year-old may be ready to try something different this summer and a move to Old Trafford may well appeal.  
  What has been said about Upamecano?  
  A quick and powerful centre back, Upamecano isn’t the tallest defender at 6ft 1in tall but his physicality jumps out at you.  
  Upamecano has been hailed in years gone by and here are some of the words of praise he has received…  
  “He’s a great defender. He didn’t need much time to adapt. He already knew the coach, and what was expected of him. He’s a great guy, very very nice, a fantastic player. Defensively, he gives us a lot.” – Former Bayern teammate Lucas Hernandez.  
  Manchester City vs Manchester United live score, H2H results, standings and prediction  
  Manchester City is going head to head with Manchester United starting on 3 Mar 2024 at 15:30 UTC at Etihad Stadium stadium, Manchester city, England. The match is a part of the Premier League.  
  Manchester City played against Manchester United in 2 matches this season. Currently, Manchester City rank 3rd, while Manchester United hold 6th position. Looking to compare the best-rated player on both teams? Sofascore's rating system assigns each player a specific rating based on numerous data factors.  
  On Sofascore livescore you can find all previous Manchester City vs Manchester United results sorted by their H2H matches. Sofascore also provides the best way to follow the live score of this game with various sports features. Therefore, you can:  
  Find out who scored in a live match  
  Get real-time information on which team is dominating the match using the Attack Momentum  
  Follow detailed statistics such as ball possession, shots, corner kicks, big chances created, cards, key passes, duels and more  
  Check all head to head matches – for instance, in the last season Manchester City and Manchester United played 2 games against each other  
  Track all home and away games for each team in the Premier League  
  Check out how Sofascore community votes on which team is more likely to win this match.  
  All of these features can help you decide on Manchester City vs. Manchester United game prediction. Even though Sofascore doesn't offer direct betting, it provides the best odds and shows you which sites offer live betting. Live U-TV odds are viewable on Sofascore's Football live score section.  
  Where to watch Manchester City vs. Manchester United? Under TV Channels section you can find the list of all channels that broadcast Manchester City – Manchester United live match. You can also live stream this match through our betting partners or click on any links on Sofascore for a legal live stream.  
  Event details: NAME: Manchester City - Manchester United DATE: 3 Mar 2024 TIME: 15:30 UTC VENUE: Etihad Stadium, Manchester, England  
  Sofascore livescore is available as iPhone and iPad app, Android app on Google Play and Windows phone app. You can find us in all stores on different languages as "Sofascore". Install Sofascore app on and follow Manchester City Manchester United live on your mobile!  
  Manchester City vs Manchester United live score, H2H results, standings and prediction  
  Manchester City is going head to head with Manchester United starting on 3 Mar 2024 at 15:30 UTC at Etihad Stadium stadium, Manchester city, England. The match is a part of the Premier League.  
  Manchester City played against Manchester United in 2 matches this season. Currently, Manchester City rank 3rd, while Manchester United hold 6th position. Looking to compare the best-rated player on both teams? Sofascore's rating system assigns each player a specific rating based on numerous data factors.  
  On Sofascore livescore you can find all previous Manchester City vs Manchester United results sorted by their H2H matches. Sofascore also provides the best way to follow the live score of this game with various sports features. Therefore, you can:  
  Find out who scored in a live match  
  Get real-time information on which team is dominating the match using the Attack Momentum  
  Follow detailed statistics such as ball possession, shots, corner kicks, big chances created, cards, key passes, duels and more  
  Check all head to head matches – for instance, in the last season Manchester City and Manchester United played 2 games against each other  
  Track all home and away games for each team in the Premier League  
  Check out how Sofascore community votes on which team is more likely to win this match.  
  All of these features can help you decide on Manchester City vs. Manchester United game prediction. Even though Sofascore doesn't offer direct betting, it provides the best odds and shows you which sites offer live betting. Live U-TV odds are viewable on Sofascore's Football live score section.  
  Where to watch Manchester City vs. Manchester United? Under TV Channels section you can find the list of all channels that broadcast Manchester City – Manchester United live match. You can also live stream this match through our betting partners or click on any links on Sofascore for a legal live stream.  
  Event details: NAME: Manchester City - Manchester United DATE: 3 Mar 2024 TIME: 15:30 UTC VENUE: Etihad Stadium, Manchester, England  
  Sofascore livescore is available as iPhone and iPad app, Android app on Google Play and Windows phone app. You can find us in all stores on different languages as "Sofascore". Install Sofascore app on and follow Manchester City Manchester United live on your mobile!  
  Show more  
  Players  
  Standings  
  *Important notice – Sofascore.com in partnership with U-TV offers over 140,000 live streaming events per year. However, please note that the intellectual property rights to stream such events are usually owned at a country level and therefore, depending on your location, there may be certain events that you may be unable to view due to such restrictions. Prior to joining U-TV and funding your account in order to view Man City Man Utd, or any other particular event via the U-TV live stream, you are strongly advised to check with U-TV if, depending on your place of residence, it is possible to view the live streamed event in question.  
  About  
  Live scores service at Sofascore livescore offers sports live scores, results and tables. Follow your favourite teams right here live! Live score on Sofascore.com livescore is automatically updated and you don't need to refresh it manually. With adding games you want to follow in "My games" following your matches livescores, results and statistics will be even more simple.  
  Teun Koopmeiners has told Manchester United what they would want to hear amid transfer links  
  Man United have been linked with Atalanta midfielder Teun Koopmeiners in recent weeks.  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Ahead of this forthcoming summer's transfer window, Manchester United are already being linked with a catalogue of players.  
  Following the arrival of Sir Jim Ratcliffe and the Ineos Group, big changes are expected to take place at Old Trafford ahead of next season. United plan to become more proactive in the seller's market, with a record number of sales planned.  
  They also plan to be active in the buyer's market, with the club keen to add fresh blood to their ranks. It is understood that a full-back, a centre-back, a midfielder and a forward feature on their wish list.  
  Though the four aforementioned positions need strengthening, it has been argued that strengthening in midfield should be United's leading objective. Casemiro has regressed this season, so much so he could be sold, meaning United could make signing a new midfielder their leading priority.  
  Among the cluster of midfielders United have been linked with is Atalanta ace Teun Koopmeiners. The Dutchman, who turned 26 last month, has been closely linked with a move to M16, likewise Liverpool.  
  He has been on Atalanta's books since 2021 and has scored 26 goals and registered 12 assists in 112 appearances. Of those respective tallies, 12 goals and four assists have been recorded this season.  
  Amid such impressive numbers, it is hardly surprising he is being linked with such prestigious clubs. And such links have prompted the midfielder to admit he would like to leave Atalanta in this summer's window, citing England as a realistic destination.  
  Speaking to Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf during the international break, Koopmeiners said: "I have told Atalanta that I want to make a move next summer, but there has to be something really nice to swap that for Atalanta just like that. My girlfriend and I are having a great time in Italy, but for some clubs in England, I’ll put up with the rain.  
  "I hope there will be nice options I can think about, and then I hope Atalanta receive a nice amount for me, because I will have had a wonderful time there."  
  Despite the midfielder, who missed the Netherlands' 2-1 defeat to Germany on Tuesday night through injury, outlining his desire to leave Atalanta in the summer, the Italian club's director, Luca Percassi, has claimed he has not requested to leave, nor do Atalanta need to sell him.  
  "This club is solid and does not need to sell," he told L'Eco di Bergamo. "Koopmeiners has not been sold to Juve, nor anyone else. In fact, he never asked us to be sold."  
  Perhaps using the international break to put his face in the shop window, Koopmeiners is said to be attracting plenty of interest. Atalanta are currently sixth in Serie A and seven points shy of the Champions League places, meaning they are still in with a chance of securing qualification for Europe's premier club competition next season.  
  Atalanta have competed in the Europa League this season and face Liverpool in the quarter-finals next month. Naturally, Koopmeiners will no doubt be keen to secure a move to a club that can offer him Champions League football.  
  Currently, United are outsiders to secure Champions League qualification for next season. They are sixth in the standings, nine points shy of fourth, though a fifth-placed finish could be enough this term.  
  If they are to stand any chance of bringing in the Dutchman, Champions League qualification feels as though it will be vital, as it will be to a lot of their transfer plans ahead of the summer. Their final 10 games will almost certainly dictate the avenue they head down this summer.  
  Get United transfer news and updates on WhatsApp!  
  Our team of Manchester United experts are on top of all the goings-on at Old Trafford for this week and beyond, and you can get the latest team news, injury updates, reaction and analysis along with inside information to your phone by joining our new free WhatsApp community. You can also join the 50,000 (and growing!) band of United fans who are following our WhatsApp Channel.  
  Sign up to our community here, and join our WhatsApp channel here.  
  --  
  We also treat our community members to special offers, promotions, and adverts from us and our partners. If you don’t like our community, you can check out any time you like. If you’re curious, you can read our Privacy Notice.  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  The History of Manchester United Football Club  
  Manchester United is the greatest football club in the world with a rich history dating back to 1878. Here at the American Red Devils we are students of Manchester United history and wanted to share our findings here for all fans to reference. Below, Manchester United’s history is broken down into different eras, click on one to take a deep dive and learn more about this historic football club.  
  Update: This page is currently a work in progress, we will be writing sections this offseason and will post updates here. This is a big project and we want to make sure we get it right. GGMU Alex & John.  
  The Dawn of Club Football: Newton Heath LYR (1878 – 1901)  
  Newton Heath LYR Football Club was founded in 1878 by the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR) depot at Newton Heath. The Football Club adopted the railway company’s colors, and the famous green and gold kits were born.  
  Initially, the Football Club played friendly matches against other departments within the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway and rival companies in Manchester. Their first recorded match was played on November 20th, 1880, where Newton Heath got crushed 0-6 by the Bolton Wanderer reserve team. Despite their humble beginnings, the young club continued as the popularity of football spread in England. In 1882-1883 season the Newton Heath LYR Football Club played 26 friendly matches. By 1888, the club had become a founding member of The Combination, a regional football league.  
  Manchester United Is Born (1902 – 1915 )  
  In January 1902, with debts of £2,670 – the club was served with a winding-up order. That was when four local businessmen, including John Henry Davies, invested £500 each to save the club. After purchasing Newton Heath they subsequently changed the name and on 24 April 1902, Manchester United was officially born.  
  In 1906 Manchester United secured promotion to the First Division of English Football and in 1908 the club lifted their first league. The following season Manchester United kicked-off with a victory in the first-ever Charity Shield and ended the season with the club’s first FA Cup title. Already one of the top clubs in England, Manchester United would win the First Division for the second time in 1911.  
  Football’s Lost Years, World at War (1916 – 1944)  
  When World War I was declared in 1914, and between 1915 and 1919 competitive football was suspended in England. Many players signed up to fight in the war and many died – Bradford City, for example, lost nine players in the war.  
  In 1922, three years after the resumption of football Manchester United was relegated to the Second Division. The Club was promoted in 1925 but was relegated again in 1931 and continued its slide to its all-time lowest position of 20th place in the Second Division in 1934. In December 1931, James W. Gibson invested £2,000 and assumed control of the club. In 1935-1936 Manchester United won the second division under new ownership and was able to achieve promotion but was relegated the next season.  
  Manchester United finished second in Second Division in 1937-1938 and was once again promoted but would finish 14th the next season which would be the last full year of football before World War II. The 1939-1940 season would be cut short by the war and The Football League would not resume until the 1945-1946 season.  
  The Busby Babes (1945 – 1969)  
  In October 1945, the post World Ward II resumption of football led to the appointment of Matt Busby as Manchester United manager. Busby led the team to 3 consecutive second-place league finishes (1947-1949), and to a FA Cup victory in 1948.  
  In 1952, Manchester United won the First Division League title, it’s first in 41 years. Matt Busby believed in youth and fielded a team with an average age of 22, known as the “The Busby Babes”. Matt and his Babes would go on to win two back-to-back league titles in 1956 and 1957.  
  The Munich Air Disaster (1958)  
  On February 6, 1958, on the way home from a European Cup quarter-final victory against Red Star Belgrade, the aircraft carrying the Manchester United players, officials, and journalists crashed while attempting to take off after refueling in Munich, Germany. The Munich air disaster claimed 23 lives, including eight Manchester United players – Geoff Bent, Roger Byrne, Eddie Colman, Duncan Edwards, Mark Jones, David Pegg, Tommy Taylor, and Billy Whelan – and injured several more. The Munich air disaster is remembered on February 6th every year at Old Trafford and is one of the most defining moments in Manchester United history.  
  The Rebirth of Manchester United, Sir Matt Busby (1959 – 1969)  
  Busby miraculously recovered from the Munich air disaster and rebuilt the team through the 1960s. Manchester United signed Denis Law and Pat Crerand, who combined with the next generation of Manchester United youth players – including George Best – to win the FA Cup in 1963 and League Title in 1965 and 1967.  
  In 1968, 10 years after the Munich air disaster, Manchester United became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final.  
  The Dark Ages (1969 – 1986)  
  Manchester United hired and fired managers and struggled in the First Division after the departure of Sir Matt Busby. Tommy Docherty was appointed as manager in December 1972, but Manchester United was again relegated in 1974. The team fought back and won promotion at the first attempt in 1975. The clubs crowning achievement in the 1970s was a win against Liverpool in the 1977 FA Cup Final.  
  Dave Sexton replaced Docherty as a manager in the summer of 1977 and the team continued to struggle. Sexton was sacked in 1981 and was replaced by Ron Atkinson, who immediately broke the British record transfer fee to sign Bryan Robson. Manchester United won the FA Cup twice – in 1983 and 1985.  
  The Impossible Dream, Sir Alex Ferguson 1986 – 2013  
  In November of 1986, with the club in danger of relegation, Ron Atkinson was dismissed and was replaced by Alex Ferguson. In his first 3 years in charge, the Club finished 11th, 2nd, and 11th in the First Division. He was reportedly on the chopping block heading into the FA Cup Final Replay but a Manchester United victory in against Crystal Palace saved the gaffer’s job and the rest is history.  
  In the 1998–99 season, the club would make Manchester United history becoming the first team to win the Premier League, FA Cup, and UEFA Champions League – “The Treble”. The club also won the Intercontinental Cup after beating Palmeiras 1–0 in Tokyo. Ferguson was subsequently knighted for his accomplishments in football and became Sir Alex Ferguson.  
  Sir Alex and Manchester United would go on to win 13 League titles, 5 FA Cups, 4 League Cups, and 3 Champions Leagues before he retired in 2013.  
  Glazers & Woodward Unhinged, No Direction, No Director of Football 2014 – 2020  
  David Moyes was hand picked by Sir Alex to succeed him in the managerial role at Old Trafford. After one season, Moyesy fell to the sack in 2014 after finishing a dissapointing 7th in the EPL. The summer after Louis Van Gaal, one of the dutch architechs of total football was appointed and backed with summer signings including Memphis, Blind, Schniederlen and Darmian. Unfortuneately for LVG his rein was brief and he was sacked after lifting the FA Cup in 2016.  
  The musical chairs continued from the board and Jose Mourinho was appointed as manager to start the 2016-2017 campaign. In his first season, the team finished 6th in the EPL but lifted both the League Cup and Europa League trophies. The following season, Jose would deliver Manchester United’s best finish since Sir Alex left the club when Manchester United placed second behind their noisy neighbors. It was when the board did not decide to back Jose in the 2018 summer transfer window where the relationship started to sour. On 18 December 2018, with just seven wins in the first 17 league games, manager José Mourinho was sacked.  
  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was appointed as interim manager and his first match was against his former club, Cardiff City, on 22 December 2018. On 28 March 2019, having won 14 of his 19 matches in charge, Solskjær signed a three-year contract to take over as Manchester United manager on a permanent basis. Ole would just miss out on top four finishing 6th, a disappointing finish to how he had started.  
  In the 2019-2020 season, Ole would lead Manchester United to finish 3rd with a victory over Leicester City on the final day of the competition.  
  #GlazersOut – check out some of our recent articles on the calamatous Glazer ownership here.  
  The History of Old Trafford  
  In 1909 John Henry Davies donated funds for the construction of a new stadium. After searching Manchester for the right place for a stadium, he settled on a patch of land adjacent to the Bridgewater Canal, just off the north end of the Warwick Road in Old Trafford.  
  Designed by Scottish architect Archibald Leitch, the ground was originally designed with a capacity of 100,000 and featured covered seating in the south stand, while the remaining stands were left as terraces and uncovered.  
  It was initially named United Football Ground but was renamed Old Trafford Football Ground in early 1936.  
  How would Manchester United be affected financially by missing the Champions League?  
  Champions League qualification is suddenly back on the cards for Manchester United after a week that could hardly have gone better for Erik ten Hag’s side.  
  Although far from certain, it is now likely a fifth-place Premier League finish in May will be enough to qualify for next season’s Champions League. United are one spot and six points off that position, currently held by Tottenham, with 10 games left to play.  
  Yet data firm Opta’s predictor still has United as outsiders for a spot, rating their chances of ending up fifth or better at just 15.6 per cent.  
  A place in European club football’s blue-riband tournament is often the minimum expectation at Old Trafford, given the financial rewards involved, and whether or not United qualify for its 2024-25 version could have ramifications for Ten Hag’s future.  
  So what impact would a second straight year in the Champions League have on the club’s balance sheet? And how much of a disaster would failing to qualify be?  
  How much money do clubs in the Champions League get?  
  Approximately €2.1billion (£1.8bn; $2.3bn) is shared between participating clubs each year as part of the Champions League’s current revenue distribution model.  
  Twenty-five per cent is paid out as a flat starting fee to all clubs competing in the group stage, 30 per cent is paid related to performances in the competition and another 30 per cent is paid according to each club’s 10-year coefficient. The final 15 per cent is paid according to the size of their domestic TV markets.  
  Manchester United manager Erik ten Hag (MI News/NurPhoto via Getty Images)  
  During the 2022-23 season, the competition’s eventual winners Manchester City received the most prize money of any club at €134.9million. Spain’s Real Madrid, who were the defending champions and lost to City in the semi-finals, took the second-most at €118.8m.  
  Compare that to the €21.8million earned by Madrid’s fellow La Liga side Sevilla, who won the Europa League after going out of the Champions League at the end of the group phase with just one victory and three defeats in their six matches. Thirty of last season’s 32 Champions League clubs earned more for their European exploits.  
  Advertisement  
  You can see why there is only one competition of UEFA’s three that Europe’s elite want to be playing in.  
  How much of a difference does it make to United?  
  Every year in their annual report, United warn in no uncertain terms that failure to qualify for the following season’s Champions League will “result in a material reduction in revenue”.  
  And the benefit of playing in Europe’s top club competition is clear to see from their financial results so far this season, even though United were eliminated at the group stage.  
  Thanks largely to their return to the Champions League, having competed in the Europa League in 2022-23, United’s broadcast and matchday revenue streams have seen increases of £52million and £23.8m ($65.8m and $30m) respectively in the six months to the end of 2023 compared to the same period last season.  
  Those increases are only slightly offset by a rise in United’s wage bill, which has increased by £25.8million this season.  
  To mitigate the impact of missing out on the Champions League, the majority of United players receive a 25 per cent wage cut if they fail to qualify. After last season’s third-place Premier League finish, those salaries were restored to their original level.  
  And so, whereas United spent £159.6million on wages in the six months to the end of 2022, they spent £185.4m in the same period in 2023. Still, that is a small price to pay to be back at the top table rather than in the second tier of European competition.  
  United actually earned a respectable €32.6million from UEFA last season — the most of any Europa League team, despite going out in the quarter-finals.  
  United were knocked out by Sevilla in last season’s Europa League (Jose Hernandez/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)  
  And yet, a respected football finance analyst who uses the pseudonym Swiss Ramble expects United will receive €60.2million from UEFA for this year’s Champions League campaign, even though they did not reach the ongoing knockout rounds.  
  Does the new Champions League format change things?  
  Yes. From the start of next season, the Champions League will be expanded to a 36-team tournament, from the current 32, as part of changes to the formats of UEFA’s club competitions.  
  UEFA expects its revamp to boost revenues significantly, estimating a total income of around €4.4billion (£3.8bn; €4.8bn). Around €2.5bn of that will be distributed to clubs competing in the Champions League, with the remainder paid to those in the Europa League and third-tier Conference League.  
  A greater proportion of the Champions League money will be shared equally across all participating clubs and paid out on a performance-related basis, with less going according to a club’s coefficient and share of the broadcasting market.  
  Advertisement  
  Clubs such as United — with a strong coefficient and from a valuable TV market — may end up taking a slightly lower cut of a larger pool of money than under the current system. But a strong performance in the competition itself will still be richly rewarded.  
  What is the cost of missing out?  
  As each club’s earnings are dependent on performance, coefficient and their share of the TV pool, it is hard to put an exact figure of how much money United would stand miss out on by failing to qualify.  
  But the discrepancies between Champions League and Europa League prize money are clear to see and give a good illustration.  
  Under next season’s new model, Champions League clubs will receive an increased starting fee of €18.6million — up from €15.6m this year — compared to just €4.1m in the Europa League.  
  Whereas Europa League clubs will only receive €450,000 for each win in the group stage and €1.75m for qualifying for the knockout stages, Champions League clubs will get €2.1m and €11m for those achievements respectively.  
  And the fact that United are set to earn almost twice as much from this season’s early Champions League exit compared to last season’s run to the Europa League’s last eight shows the disparity between the two competitions.  
  Jim Ratcliffe, now in charge of football operations at United (Simon Peach/PA Images via Getty Images)  
  Then there are the potential hidden costs of non-qualification. Since the 2015-16 season, United have had a kit deal in place with Adidas which contains a Champions League non-participation clause. If they fail to qualify for the Champions League two seasons running, Adidas cuts its annual payment of £75million by 30 per cent — essentially, costing United £22.5m.  
  That clause has never been triggered and it won’t be activated this summer as United achieved a top-four Premier League finish last season. However, it has been amended as part of the new £900million deal signed with Adidas last summer, which extended the partnership until 2035. From the 2025-26 season onwards, a £10m deduction will be made by Adidas every year United fail to qualify for the Champions League.  
  Advertisement  
  United do not need to worry about that for now. The 30 per cent clause still applies until the end of next season, but failing to qualify at the end of this one would put them at risk of finally triggering it just before it expires.  
  How does this impact United’s FFP?  
  Clearly, qualifying for the Champions League can only be beneficial for United’s compliance with financial fair play (FFP) regulations. But would failing to qualify put them at risk of a breach?  
  Clubs in European competition were not subject to the same break-even test this year as UEFA migrated to new rules, but the test will be in force again next season, alongside UEFA’s new squad cost ratio.  
  United have also preached caution over their compliance with the Premier League’s profitability and sustainability rules (PSR), which allow clubs to lose no more than £105million over a three-year monitoring period.  
  They have lost a lot of money in recent years but, from next season onwards, the £150million pre-tax loss suffered during the 2021-22 season will no longer be part of either UEFA’s or the Premier League’s monitoring periods.  
  With that £150million loss out of the equation, so long as they do not post a similarly huge deficit at the end of this season, United should have more FFP headroom going forward, whether playing in the Champions League or not. Qualifying would certainly help, though.  
  (Top photo: Simon Stacpoole/Offside/Offside via Getty Images)  
  Get all-access to exclusive stories.  
  Subscribe to The Athletic for in-depth coverage of your favorite players, teams, leagues and clubs. Try a week on us.  
  Start Free Trial  
  Mark Critchley is a football writer for The Athletic, covering Manchester United and Manchester City. Mark joined after five years as The Independent's northern football correspondent. Follow Mark on Twitter @mjcritchley  
  Why Are There 2 Manchester Teams? (A Detailed History)  
  By Gideon / October 22, 2022 December 24, 2022 / Teams  
  Last updated on December 24th, 2022  
  The city of Manchester has its roots deep from the age of the Roman Empire and has become renowned for several notable features across the ages. Above all, the city hosts two of the greatest clubs in world football: Manchester United and Manchester City.  
  Here is what you need to know about these two Manchester clubs:  
  A Brief History  
  Manchester is one of England’s great cities imbibed with a rich history and culture. The city is located in the Greater Manchester county of Northeastern England with a population of over half a million. Most of these inhabitants shower Manchester United and Manchester City with their patronage.  
  Since the past century, the city has been divided when both clubs face off on the pitch and for the rest of the year. The Manchester Derby is one of the most anticipated games of the year which usually occurs at least twice in each Premier League season.  
  Why are there 2 football teams in Manchester?  
  The late 19th century was a defining era for sports. After Sheffield FC started in 1857, the establishment of football clubs became a wildfire trend and resulted in many clubs springing up across the world.  
  21 years later, Manchester United was founded by railway workers as the Newton Heath LYR Football Club based in the Newton Depot area of the city. In 1880, Newton Heath contested its first professional match against the Bolton Wanderers reserve team which they lost by 6 goals to nil. Afterwards, they joined the regional league known as the Lancashire Combination before entering England’s First Division in 1892.  
  However, Newton Heath FC did not last more than two seasons in the first division before getting relegated to the second Division. By 1902, the club was facing liquidation after accumulating tons of debt. Four local businessmen came to the club’s rescue with individual investments of £500 to cover the £2,670 debt.  
  The club was renamed Manchester United by John Henry Davies on April 24, 1902 and subsequently returned to the first Division in 1906. The Red Devils finally clinched their first league title two years later.  
  On the other hand, Manchester City was founded by the church wardens of St. Mark’s Church, West Gorton, Manchester. The duo established the club as a means to curb neighbourhood violence and engage the youth in leisure extracurriculars.  
  The club’s original name was St. Marks Club in 1880 and then Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 before they were christened as Manchester City FC in 1892. Manchester City won its first honour in 1899 after clinching the second division title and won their first major trophy after the FA Cup triumph over Bolton Wanderers in 1904.  
  Other Clubs  
  Although both clubs are the major Manchester teams now, Manchester City and Manchester United were among a bunch of the city’s fledgling clubs in the early 1900s. However, most of these other clubs were unable to find stable success and later folded.  
  A major example is Manchester Central FC which was formed in 1928 by John Aryton, a former Manchester City director. Aryton established the club to serve the east part of Manchester after Manchester City’s departure from the area. However, the club only played in the Lancashire Combination and Cheshire County League.  
  They would repeatedly apply to enter England’s main football league pyramid but to no avail. In 1931, Manchester Central FC was in pole position to take Wigan Borough’s position after the latter resigned from the league.  
  However, a formal complaint was lodged by Manchester City and Manchester United. United, in particular, who were struggling for support & finance, desperately swayed the authorities to decline Manchester Central’s third bid. The club folded soon afterwards.  
  Other clubs that existed in the city include:  
  Manchester North End FC: Founded in 1992. Competed in the Lancashire Combination and Cheshire County League until they folded in 1939.  
  Denton FC: Founded in 1880. Competed in the Manchester League and Lancashire Combination until they dissolved in 1915.  
  Northwich Manchester Villa FC: Founded in 2005. Competed in the Northwest Counties league until it was dissolved in 2016.  
  Some other clubs in the city have survived under the hegemony of the big duo. In fact, some of them are inspired by the big duo and established by their fans. However, most of them compete in the lowest levels of the English Football Pyramid and enjoy little patronage from the city’s inhabitants, they include:  
  Maine Road FC: The club was formed by supporters of Manchester City FC and takes its name from City’s former stadium used from 1923 – 2003. It currently competes in England’s 9th tier of football, the Northwest Counties league.  
  Whythenshave Town FC: Established in 1946 and currently plays in the Northwest Counties league.  
  Abbey Hey FC: Founded in 1902 and competes in the Northwest Counties league.  
  FC United of Manchester: The club was formed by Manchester United supporters in protest against the Glazer takeover. United currently plays in England’s seventh football tier, the Northern Premier League.  
  None of these clubs are expected to reach either City or United’s levels due to the duo’s hegemony over the city.  
  Why are Manchester United and Manchester City rivals?  
  Here are some reasons why Manchester United  
  The City  
  Like several big cities across Europe with multiple clubs, Manchester hosts both the Blues of Manchester City and the Reds of Manchester United. Any city with multiple clubs also hosts an uneasy tension that explodes during derby matches in a bid for the city’s crown.  
  Since they are the two major clubs in the city of Manchester, there is a polarising shadow cast over the city. In Manchester, you are either Blue or Red. Whenever either club enjoys success, it is directly rubbed in the face of the other and embroils the bitterness.  
  Furthermore, the presence of both clubs in the same city provides an avenue for indirect provocation such as the Carlos Tevez saga in 2009. The Argentine striker switched the Reds for the Blues and was welcomed to City with a billboard that announced the transfer as: “Welcome to Manchester.”  
  Tevez’s grand welcome was placed on the billboard at Deansgate, the city’s central area. Sir Alex Ferguson described this stunt as the efforts of a “small club with a small mentality” and branded them as “noisy neighbours.”  
  Cultural differences  
  Although staged in the same city, both clubs cater to different demographics of people within the metropolis.  
  City fans are mostly a mix of old folks who were attracted by the club’s success in the 70s and younger fans attracted to the team of modern stars like Halaand, Foden, De Bruyne etc.  
  Due to their recent surge, Manchester City’s success has caught the attention of young fans while retaining the Blue faithfuls from the past century. City attracts way more young fans than United due to their brand of attractive football and recent dominance.  
  Trolls refer to the Etihad Stadium as “Emptyhad” due to the club’s many years of low patronage which has resulted in a lack of atmosphere that most top clubs are known for. In fact, many younger fans of the club are seen as “plastics” and glory hunters.  
  On the other hand, Manchester United enjoys the patronage of many middle-aged folks who enjoyed the club’s ‘Fergie era’ dominance from the late 90s to the early 10s.  
  Memorable matches  
  With all the tension an intense derby brings, several matches mark the fixtures and make them even harder to forget. A bitter loss is engraved for a lifetime and sweet victories echo for ages to come.  
  Although most of these matches are regular season games, it adds extra salt to the wound to lose against city rivals. Both clubs have faced off in an endless series of heavyweight matches with high stakes such as knockout ties, title deciders and relegation battles.  
  Thus, both teams always perform to their fullest in the ever-intense Manchester derby. Matches like these will be a battle for who rules the city and become obligatory to win.  
  In fact, intense derbies are a trademark of football, other city derbies include:  
  Madrid Derby: Real Madrid & Atletico Madrid  
  Rio Derby: Fluminense & Flamengo  
  Buenos Aires Derby: Boca Juniors & River Plate  
  London: Chelsea, Arsenal, Totttenham & West Ham, Brentford, Fulham  
  Milan: Inter Milan & AC Milan  
  Roma Derby: AS Roma & Lazio  
  Here are some of the most memorable matches that mark the Manchester Derby:  
  #1 The Dennis Law game  
  Dennis Law is one of the finest British footballers to grace the game. The Scotsman became a star for Huddersfield Town before he transferred to Manchester City and Torino afterwards. However, it was with Manchester United that Law made his name.  
  The forward was part of the United trinity alongside Bobby Charlton and George Best. During his 11 year stint, he won the Ballon d’Or, the European Cup and two league titles. However, Law’s time at Old Trafford came to an end after injury woes which coincided United’s decline.  
  He later transferred to the Blue city rivals in 1973. That very season, both clubs faced off in a fateful Manchester Derby as United’s relegation fate hung in the balance. Dennis Law scored a backheel goal in the 81st minute, which he didn’t celebrate due to the impending consequence.  
  United fans were angry about the result and invaded the pitch at the 81st minute. However, the FA ruled that the result must stand. In the end, it was Law’s backheel goal that relegated United.  
  #2 Keane vs. Halaand  
  In the 2001 Manchester Derby, United Captain, Roy Keane was sent off after inflicting a horror tackle on a City player, Alf-Inge Halaand with a direct high-boot challenge to the knee. The next year, Roy Keane published his autobiography where he relished the tackle stating that he had waited for long to hit Haaland. The FA initially charged him with a £5,000 fine and three-match suspension but indicted him with a further £150,000 fine and five-match ban after his book was published.  
  Halaand and Keane’s beef stretched back to 1997 when the former played for Leeds. During that fateful match, Keane lay injured after rupturing his ACL. The United Captain was groaning in pain when Halaand loomed over him and shouted at him for faking an injury.  
  Moreover, the beef was still relevant 25 years later when the future of Alfie’s son, Erling Halaand, was to be decided. A transfer to Manchester United was spurned in January 2020 and Halaand later mentioned that the Red Devils were not on his list of prospective clubs.  
  Unsurprisingly, Erling Halaand chose to wear the blue of Manchester City in the 2022 summer window. The first derby of the 20222/23 season seemed to have echoes from the 21 years past as Halaand scored a hattrick in a thumping 6-3 demolition.  
  #3 “The Best derby of all time”  
  By the 2009/10 season, Manchester City were warming up to relive the glory days once again after the Sheikh Mansour takeover. That very season, the Manchester Derby would occur four times as both teams faced off twice in the Premier league and League Cup semi finals.  
  However, it was the first derby of the season that produced one of the most sensational football matches England had ever seen. At Old Trafford, United gained the lead three separate times and CIty equalised on all three occasions.  
  Micheal Owen scored the winning goal in the 95th minute.  
  The game was once again honoured at the Premier League 20 seasons Awards where it was voted as the best Premier League match . And why not? It was a hell of a game.  
  #4 The Clashes of 2012  
  The 2011/12 Premier League season will forever be marked by the “Agueroooo” moment. However, much more happened before City clinched their first League title since 1968.  
  The season began with the Community Shield in August 2011 between defending league champions, Manchester United, and FA Cup holders, Manchester City. Fortunately for the Reds, United sealed a comeback victory in stoppage time to clinch the victory and silverware over their neighbours at Wembley.  
  However, City got their revenge at Old Trafford in October 2011. The Blues were 1-0 up when Johnny Evans was sent off for a foul on Mario Ballotelli. Despite the 10-man effort, the match ended in a 1-6 victory for the away side which was their largest Derby triumph at the Old Trafford since 1955.  
  “Why always me?” Mario Ballotelli had an excellent performance with two goals to his name that day.  
  The next Derby meeting saw City’s exit from the FA Cup’s Third Round which geared up the Blues for another revenge. A tense affair which saw Robert Mancini and Sir Alex Ferguson square up on the sidelines ended in a tight 1-0 victory for the home side.  
  Consequently, the Blues took the lead of the Premier League standings by head-to-head advantage against their neighbours after closing a previous 8-point gap. Finally, Manchester City clinched the league title after victories in their next two matches against Newcastle United and QPR.  
  Manchester City were level on points with Manchester United and won the Premier League by head-to-head advantage. Coincidentally, Manchester City’s last league title in 1968 was also won through a head-to-head advantage over their Red neighbours.  
  The 2011/12 Premier league title became the second of four consecutive league titles won by either Manchester club. Both clubs claimed two titles apiece between 2011 and 2014 until the trophy left the City of Manchester in 2015.  
  United was particularly on the receiving end after winning no major honours that season.  
  Conclusion  
  Manchester United and Manchester City are the major clubs of Manchester which have dominated the city’s football scene for over 100 years. Other clubs in the city are very far behind and some are even inspired by both clubs.  
  The Manchester Derby showcases a heated display two or more times a season where both teams leave their hearts out to grab the win and local bragging rights. Manchester City and Manchester United have great histories which will be sustained for many years to come.  
  Home Page  
  Today on ManUtd.com  
  It's nearly a year since Ten Hag's motivational talk to Alejandro, after the go-getting winger signed a new contract.  
  The two clubs' Foundations have jointly delivered an education programme on why tragedy chanting must stop.  
  The Debate: Hot topic | Will Kobbie Mainoo represent England at Euro 2024? Wes Brown and David May have their say...  
  ONANA’S IDOLS | Andre runs through six big-name goalkeepers he’s looked up to during his career…  
  You won’t regret spending nine minutes watching Andre Onana’s best saves in a Manchester United shirt…  
  Goal of the Day | The first time United Women played at Old Trafford, Katie Zelem made no mistake from the spot...  
  Kobbie ticked off another achievement in the Three Lions' draw with Belgium on Tuesday.  
  The inside story of how the United and England midfielder is taking seniority in this stride.  
  Recently retired Marouane delves into his story for an honest and insightful UTD Podcast episode.  
  THIS WEEK'S MOST WATCHED VIDEOS  
  THIS WEEK'S MOST WATCHED VIDEOS  
  NEW FILM OUT NOW | 'One Love: For The Love Of The Game' tells the stories behind United's independent fanzines...  
  Full 120 | The greatest Old Trafford game ever? You’ll want to watch every kick, over and over and over again…  
  MUST-WATCH | Watch Rio Ferdinand reunite with Sir Alex Ferguson and chat to Erik ten Hag, thanks to TNT Sports...  
  Access All Areas | There are so many little things you will love in this unseen footage from Sunday's rip-roaring tie...  
  All The Angles | These alternative views of Amad's goal are your excuse to relive Sunday's match-winning moment again...  
  UNITED WOMEN  
  Happy birthday, Geyse! The Brazilian has combined scoring with providing goals so far in her debut season as a Red...  
  Sam, Helen and Maysie are back at Carrington to speak to Manchester United Women midfielder Emma Watson. The Scot joined United from Rangers in the summer of 2023 at the young age of 17 but unfortunately suffered an ACL injury while on international duty, shortly after signing. Emma opens up about coping with this difficult stage in her career and what her future ambitions are - she's set her sights high! Emma’s career is still in its infancy, but that hasn’t stopped her tasting success. She’s a Scotland international, has scored in the Champions League and won the 2021/22 Scottish Women's Premier League title. If that wasn’t enough, Emma was named PFA Scotland Women's Young Player of the Year in 2023. If you'd like to write to the only official Manchester United Podcast then e-mail utdpodcast@manutd.co.uk. To buy tickets for United Women's remaining home games this season, head to tickets.manutd.com.  
  Reds midfielder Emma Watson talks to UTD Podcast about recovering from an ACL injury.  
  Have you got your ticket to the Reds' final-day showdown with the Blues at Old Trafford?  
  Girlguiding ambassador Katie Zelem welcomes two young members of the organisation to Carrington...  
  FANS' STORIES  
  Young United fan Johnny Merrick reports from MUYSC's joyful (and competitive!) five-a-side tournament.  
  Legendary football artist (and Spurs fan) Paul Trevillion explains how a United icon inspired Roy of the Rovers.  
  NEW EPISODE | On World Theatre Day, join the award-winning cast of Hamilton on their tour of Old Trafford...  
  Fans from our Leicestershire supporters' club are taking on an immense challenge for our final home game.  
  Our new One Love film, 'For the Love of the Game', highlights why the club's fanzine culture is so vital.  
  For The Love of the Game clip | Barney Chilton tells the story of his courageous mum, who pushed him to create Red News…  
  THE ACADEMY  
  Omari and Willy have both made their Premier League bows for the Reds this season.  
  More than 150 guests gathered at Old Trafford at a special event to mark the recent International Women's Day.  
  Leah Galton and her partner Sheridan Douglas discuss the women's football summit at Old Trafford...  
