  Select your cookie preferences  
  We use cookies and similar tools that are necessary to enable you to make purchases, to enhance your shopping experiences and to provide our services, as detailed in our Cookie notice. We also use these cookies to understand how customers use our services (for example, by measuring site visits) so we can make improvements.  
  If you agree, we'll also use cookies to complement your shopping experience across the Amazon stores as described in our Cookie notice. Your choice applies to using first-party and third-party advertising cookies on this service. Cookies store or access standard device information such as a unique identifier. The 103 third parties who use cookies on this service do so for their purposes of displaying and measuring personalized ads, generating audience insights, and developing and improving products. Click "Decline" to reject, or "Customise" to make more detailed advertising choices, or learn more. You can change your choices at any time by visiting Cookie preferences, as described in the Cookie notice. To learn more about how and for what purposes Amazon uses personal information (such as Amazon Store order history), please visit our Privacy notice.  
  Sorry, there was a problem saving your preferences. Try again.  
  Sorry, there was a problem.  
  There was an error retrieving your Wish Lists. Please try again.  
  Sorry, there was a problem.  
  List unavailable.  
  Download the free Kindle app and start reading Kindle books instantly on your smartphone, tablet or computer – no Kindle device required.  
  Read instantly on your browser with Kindle for Web.  
  Using your mobile phone camera - scan the code below and download the Kindle app.  
  Manchester - A Football History Hardcover – 1 May 2008  
  Sorry, there was a problem loading this page.Try again.  
  Publisher James Ward is delighted to announce that well-known Mancunian author Gary James' latest book will be published to coincide with the UEFA Cup final, being staged at the City of Manchester Stadium, in May 2008 and to mark the 400th anniversary of football being banned in Manchester (that's right football was banned in Manchester in 1608!).  
  The book provides the stories of Manchester's greatest footballing achievements, while also answering questions such as: Why did football in Manchester develop the way it did? How do the Manchester sides compare in terms of local support, trophy success, and so on. Manchester - A Football History will prove to be the definitive story of football in the Manchester region.  
  Following the success of his Channel M series on the same subject, writer and football historian Gary James' latest book details the story of Mancunian football from the Middle Ages through to the modern day.  
  The book reveals many new and interesting stories and also tries to spell out many significant events that have shaped the region's football development. Manchester - A Football History focuses on the League/former League sides of Bury, City, United, Oldham, Rochdale, Stockport and Stalybridge Celtic, but also takes a look at all the local clubs who have at some point in their history attempted to join the League.  
  Within the pages of this book stories can be read highlighting:  
  * the banning of football in the city four hundred years ago * why rugby and football share a few Manchester firsts * Manchester's role in the national formalisation of the game * which Manchester side was the first English team to play competitive football in Scotland * why a street in Wolverhampton contains a memorial to an old Mancunian ground * Which present day League side wanted to change its name to Manchester Football Club during the early 1890s but was blocked by the FA * how Bury found major success before any of the region's other sides * for the first time the true date when Newton Heath became Manchester United * how City benefited by having one of the biggest newspaper barons of the 20th Century as chairman * the scandal that led to the formation of the PFA * how a City director led United's 1909 FA Cup homecoming * how the region's most successful manager of the period walked out on one of the region's sides to manage their biggest rivals * the story of how Tameside's only League representatives resigned because of lack of support despite getting crowds higher (on average) than Rochdale's all time average * how City and United combined to stop a third Manchester side from threatening their existence * what Rochdale achieved 8 years before City, 20 years before United, and 27 years before Oldham * how supporters are beginning to regain control of the game within the region  
  Manchester - A Football History will contain over 200,000 words on more than 500 pages (size 248x174mm) with photographs throughout.  
  Hyde born Gary James has been working on this book for over a decade: "Mancunian football has always been a passion of mine, however I've always been surprised to find that the full history has only ever been considered from the angle of individual clubs. Clearly, each side within the region has a history worth investigating on its own, however I've always felt that the relationships between our clubs and the stories of the region have been neglected. In fact we've often played down the achievements of our region as a whole to focus on one or two sides."  
  As part of Gary's research he has interviewed players, fans, and other figures from many different aspects of the game in the region in his quest to create the definitive story of football in the Manchester region: "I believe the book has helped unravel some of the mysteries of the Mancunian game and, for the first time, I have tried to tell the story from the beginning of the game through to the modern era. I've got to say that I've been amazed by some of what I've discovered."  
  Product description  
  From the Author  
  The aim of this book is to detail the importance of football, to Manchester and its neighbouring boroughs. A book focusing on Manchester football clearly has two main sporting organisations at its core, however this publication simply does not focus on City and United, instead it attempts to consider the relationship between the other League and former League sides of the conurbation.  
  It's always difficult to identify what constitutes Manchester itself - Old Trafford is outside of the City's boundaries but very much a part of Manchester as far as United fans are concerned - and so I've decided to focus on the boroughs within the M60 and those the motorway enters. This includes the boroughs of Manchester, Bury, Oldham, Rochdale, Salford, Stockport, Tameside and Trafford, however I have excluded Wigan and Bolton. I believe the stories of the sides from those two boroughs are more appropriate in another `History of Football' volume I intend writing, although you will find the occasional reference to sides from those boroughs within this volume.  
  The eight boroughs featured in this book have, over the last century been fortunate to have seven League sides, with Salford being the only borough not to have had a League side (though United is on its doorstep). In addition they have known great periods of success, failure and sadly tragedy. No one living within the region can fail to be aware of the importance of the game of football and even if residents do not attend games they must surely be aware of the positives the game brings. Throughout the world Manchester is known more for its sport today than for any other aspect of Mancunian life, while the towns of Oldham, Bury, Rochdale, and Stockport remain in the public consciousness partly because of their football sides. Interestingly, Tameside does not have one dominant club, but it does have several great non-league sides - had Tameside possessed one significant side utilising the name Tameside would the borough be known nationally in the same manner as, say, Rochdale?  
  Possibly because of the rivalry between the sides in the region few books have considered how football developed across the area. For at least three decades there have been plenty of books on United and in the last decade or so City has seen a plethora of material produced on its existence. Similarly, the last few years have seen books on all the region's League sides. But each book has been aimed at the supporters of individual teams and not the region as a whole. This means that some stories such as the formation of the PFA, the role of Manchester Central FC, and even the contribution to the game of Ernest Mangnall have either been missing, or have been considered only from the perspective of one club. This book aims to improve that situation and put into perspective the history of the game within the region.  
  There have been many great moments in the region's footballing history but what has rarely been considered is how the region's sporting successes have influenced the development of the region and its prestige. In 1904, following City's first FA Cup win, manager Tom Maley was amazed at the size of the city centre's first homecoming parade. He told City's officials and Manchester's journalists at the end of the parade: "Perhaps love of sport had something to do with the bringing together of so great a gathering, but love of Manchester, had much more to do with it." Maley's views were significant and within two days of the comments being made the Manchester Evening Chronicle claimed that Manchester was now the second city of the Empire. It was a bold statement, but it was also totally understandable. The celebrations and attention paid to the game had brought the people together (the rivalry of later years was not evident as all Mancunians wanted all Mancunian sides to bring honour to the city at this point), and such a show of solidarity in a celebratory manner gave a very positive demonstration of what made Manchester special.  
  Not all of our sides can attract crowds of 70,000 plus, but they do all carry hope, ambition, and at kick off in every game in the region no individual can predict exactly how the game will unfold. That's the beauty of football and in the Manchester region we are blessed with an incredible number of football clubs.  
  Product details   
  About the author  
  Brief content visible, double tap to read full content.  
  Full content visible, double tap to read brief content.  
  Discover more of the author’s books, see similar authors, read author blogs and more  
  Customer reviews  
  Customer Reviews, including Product Star Ratings, help customers to learn more about the product and decide whether it is the right product for them.  
  To calculate the overall star rating and percentage breakdown by star, we don’t use a simple average. Instead, our system considers things like how recent a review is and if the reviewer bought the item on Amazon. It also analyses reviews to verify trustworthiness.  
  Reviews with images  
  BOOK OF THE WEEK by Ian Herbert, Independent NewspaperFor all the ink that has been spilled in the name of Manchester United, only now do we learn the definitive - some say fateful - date on which the planet's most famous sporting institution spluttered into life, as Newton Heath FC was consigned to history.Even Old Trafford's mighty United Opus tells us it was on 26 April 1902 that the struggling former railwaymen's team, facing a winding-up order, was superceded at the New Islington public house in Ancoats by United, in what might today be called a re-branding exercise, and it says everything about his immaculate piece of scholarship that James reveals the club to be two days older than it seems to think it is. The meeting was on the 24th. Hard to believe also, in the age of the global brand, that the name "United" may well have been selected for no other reason than clubs' proclivity back then for seizing on the name of the moment. Sheffield United may have been the inspiration, having reached the FA Cup final seven days earlier.The early histories of Manchester City and United provide some of the most fascinating elements of a story James relates without hype. The clubs' close bonds, much discussed at the recent 50th Munich anniversary, are an intriguing thread. City were keen to sell United (rather than southern sides) their best players, Bill Meredith included, when strapped for cash and reeling from a match-fixing scandal in 1907. The two also joined forces to prevent the newly- founded Manchester Central club being elected to the Football League and threatening their own fan bases in the early 1930s.The periodic scandals - the collusion of Liverpool and United players to fix a league game United won 2-0 in 1915 is particularly well related - remind us that little is new in football.Except money of course. This story is unimpassioned enough not to make judgements about the game's evolution in the Premier League era but the seamless interweaving of Stockport, Rochdale and Bury's narratives - not overshadowed, for once - with those of the Manchester giants tells more subtly what a toll that big money is taking on the lesser lights. Sir Alex Ferguson might detest FC United of Manchester, the club established in the teeth of the game's corporatisation, but James also attends to that club's ethos and relatively unknown recent splits with a level of detail befitting its significance. His story of City's beginnings - when a Manchester rector's daughter set up a club to distract the working men prone to drinking and violence, then known as "scuttling" - is also poignant amid Thaksin Shinawatra's search for global brand awareness.  
  Top reviews from United Kingdom  
  There was a problem filtering reviews right now. Please try again later.  
  Apart from a fee typos, this is a brilliant history of Manchester srea football. Highly recommend it to all serious football historians.  
  The pleasure I have received from reading this book has left me morally obliged to do my first ever Amazon Review. Whilst I will attempt to wax lyrical, a little story first that will probably be more convincing in its way than any words of praise that I can muster:-  
  Although a Manchester City fan, I joined a coachful from our pub to go and give Stockport County a cheer in their play-off game at Wembley against Rochdale. The coach was a fair mix of County (obviously), City and United fans. I took Gary James's book to while away the journey. Suffice to say that others took an interest in it and were blown away with the 'differentness' of it. By the time we returned, I'd taken a total of 11 orders for copies!  
  The book clearly has a 'wow' factor. I think one of its main qualities is the author's refusal to merely compartmentalise each Manchester club's history. Instead it is largely chronological and dwells many times on the relationships between clubs rather than just significant events in their individual past. Whilst United and City inevitably figure prominantly, there is due credit given to the likes of Bury who were Manchester's first truly successful club. At the other extreme, newcomers FC United are given respect for their efforts to return affordable football to the grassroots supporter. In between, every club from the area has its roots explained and its triumphs and tribulations related accurately and entertainingly .  
  One of my favourite sections is the rise and unfortunate demise of Manchester Central FC. If United and City had not combined and connived to keep this fledging club out of the League in the late'20's / early '30's, then either there would have been three city centre teams or an ailing United could have gone to the wall.  
  Gary James has researched so deeply that many errors have been found in clubs' official histories. Whilst such fine detail is to be commended, the narrative never lapses into a tedious list of dates that only the 'anorak' would appreciate. Instead it flows and has you wondering what happened next, even when on some occasions you were fairly sure you knew your football history.  
  As the guys on the coach found, this is a 'once seen - must have' book and I for one will be buying several more copies, as I have absolutely no doubt that as a Christmas or birthday present it will received with total delight.  
  BOOK OF THE WEEK by Ian Herbert, Independent Newspaper  
  For all the ink that has been spilled in the name of Manchester United, only now do we learn the definitive - some say fateful - date on which the planet's most famous sporting institution spluttered into life, as Newton Heath FC was consigned to history.  
  Even Old Trafford's mighty United Opus tells us it was on 26 April 1902 that the struggling former railwaymen's team, facing a winding-up order, was superceded at the New Islington public house in Ancoats by United, in what might today be called a re-branding exercise, and it says everything about his immaculate piece of scholarship that James reveals the club to be two days older than it seems to think it is. The meeting was on the 24th. Hard to believe also, in the age of the global brand, that the name "United" may well have been selected for no other reason than clubs' proclivity back then for seizing on the name of the moment. Sheffield United may have been the inspiration, having reached the FA Cup final seven days earlier.  
  The early histories of Manchester City and United provide some of the most fascinating elements of a story James relates without hype. The clubs' close bonds, much discussed at the recent 50th Munich anniversary, are an intriguing thread. City were keen to sell United (rather than southern sides) their best players, Bill Meredith included, when strapped for cash and reeling from a match-fixing scandal in 1907. The two also joined forces to prevent the newly- founded Manchester Central club being elected to the Football League and threatening their own fan bases in the early 1930s.  
  The periodic scandals - the collusion of Liverpool and United players to fix a league game United won 2-0 in 1915 is particularly well related - remind us that little is new in football.  
  Except money of course. This story is unimpassioned enough not to make judgements about the game's evolution in the Premier League era but the seamless interweaving of Stockport, Rochdale and Bury's narratives - not overshadowed, for once - with those of the Manchester giants tells more subtly what a toll that big money is taking on the lesser lights. Sir Alex Ferguson might detest FC United of Manchester, the club established in the teeth of the game's corporatisation, but James also attends to that club's ethos and relatively unknown recent splits with a level of detail befitting its significance. His story of City's beginnings - when a Manchester rector's daughter set up a club to distract the working men prone to drinking and violence, then known as "scuttling" - is also poignant amid Thaksin Shinawatra's search for global brand awareness.  
  5.0 out of 5 stars Review from Independent Newspaper, 23/06/08 Reviewed in the United Kingdom on 1 July 2008  
  BOOK OF THE WEEK by Ian Herbert, Independent Newspaper  
  For all the ink that has been spilled in the name of Manchester United, only now do we learn the definitive - some say fateful - date on which the planet's most famous sporting institution spluttered into life, as Newton Heath FC was consigned to history.  
  Even Old Trafford's mighty United Opus tells us it was on 26 April 1902 that the struggling former railwaymen's team, facing a winding-up order, was superceded at the New Islington public house in Ancoats by United, in what might today be called a re-branding exercise, and it says everything about his immaculate piece of scholarship that James reveals the club to be two days older than it seems to think it is. The meeting was on the 24th. Hard to believe also, in the age of the global brand, that the name "United" may well have been selected for no other reason than clubs' proclivity back then for seizing on the name of the moment. Sheffield United may have been the inspiration, having reached the FA Cup final seven days earlier.  
  The early histories of Manchester City and United provide some of the most fascinating elements of a story James relates without hype. The clubs' close bonds, much discussed at the recent 50th Munich anniversary, are an intriguing thread. City were keen to sell United (rather than southern sides) their best players, Bill Meredith included, when strapped for cash and reeling from a match-fixing scandal in 1907. The two also joined forces to prevent the newly- founded Manchester Central club being elected to the Football League and threatening their own fan bases in the early 1930s.  
  The periodic scandals - the collusion of Liverpool and United players to fix a league game United won 2-0 in 1915 is particularly well related - remind us that little is new in football.  
  Except money of course. This story is unimpassioned enough not to make judgements about the game's evolution in the Premier League era but the seamless interweaving of Stockport, Rochdale and Bury's narratives - not overshadowed, for once - with those of the Manchester giants tells more subtly what a toll that big money is taking on the lesser lights. Sir Alex Ferguson might detest FC United of Manchester, the club established in the teeth of the game's corporatisation, but James also attends to that club's ethos and relatively unknown recent splits with a level of detail befitting its significance. His story of City's beginnings - when a Manchester rector's daughter set up a club to distract the working men prone to drinking and violence, then known as "scuttling" - is also poignant amid Thaksin Shinawatra's search for global brand awareness.  
  My husband has not put this book down since he opened it on christmas morning. He is fascinated by the facts and stories and photos of all the clubs. He is a City fan but is finding the whole book an amazing read.  
  Gary James did exhaustive research into the history of Manchester via its surrounding and internal football teams. I purchased the 2008 volume for myself and then the updated (finally! Such a welcome thing!! I was trying to hold out until the updated version but could not. Now I will buy it, to support this amazing book and author.) volume came out, and it was coincedentally near my best friend and fellow United fan's birthday; so guess what he got! The shiny new 2010 version. Whether you are a United, City, or other team in the Manchester area, this is the perfect book. Primary and secondary sources are oozing out the endpages. Gary James has written perfection in this book.  
  Reviewed in the United Kingdom on 10 December 2011  
  The author did not just focus on the glamour of Manchester City and United but also the other teams in the Manchester area. What I especially enjoyed about the book was hoW the author did not just concentrate on the glory side but also commented on such things as the Bury and Coventry scandal of the 1920s. As football gets further and further removed from what enticed me all those years ago, books like this help me see beyond the commericially hyped sanitised game that professional football has become.  
  After viewing product detail pages, look here to find an easy way to navigate back to pages you are interested in.  
  The 10 most expensive defender transfers of all time: Maguire to Man Utd, Van Dijk to Liverpool and Man City flop  
  Manchester United, Manchester City and Liverpool have been responsible for signing some of the most expensive defenders in history.  
  Big-money defensive signings have become more common in recent years as they are now expected to do much more than just prevent goals.  
  We’ve now taken a look at the 10 most expensive defenders in history and how they fared after completing their big-money moves.  
  Note: we’ve included any potential add-ons and bonuses in the total figures.  
  10. Achraf Hakimi – £60.9m  
  Despite winning the Serie A title in his debut season at Inter Milan, Hakimi was sold by the club in 2021 in order to raise funds.  
  Paris Saint-Germain fought off competition from Chelsea and won the race for his signature after agreeing to pay Inter an initial £51.3million and another £9.6million in add-ons.  
  The Morocco international has justified that price tag at the Parc des Princes and is widely regarded as one of the best right-backs in the world.  
  He’s recently been linked with Real Madrid and Manchester City but PSG are looking to extend his contract, which is due to expire in 2026.  
  9. Marc Cucurella – £63m  
  Cucurella enjoyed a brilliant debut season at Brighton in 2021/22 and his impressive performances attracted interest from Chelsea and Manchester City.  
  While City were willing to pay £40million for the left-back, Chelsea outbid them by giving the Seagulls an initial £56million and a further £7million in add-ons.  
  But he has failed to live up to expectations at Stamford Bridge and is currently behind Ben Chilwell and Levi Colwill in the pecking order.  
  8. Ruben Dias – £65m  
  One of two Manchester City defenders on this list, Dias joined Pep Guardiola’s side from Benfica in the summer of 2020.  
  The deal for the Portugal international was worth an initial £62million, with a further £3million subject to potential add-ons.  
  He made an instant impact at the Etihad Stadium, winning the Premier League Player of the Season award and the Football Writers’ Association (FWA) Footballer of the Year award in 2020/21.  
  The centre-back also helped the club win three successive Premier League titles, the FA Cup, the Carabao Cup, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  7= Lucas Hernandez – £68m  
  Bayern Munich signed Hernandez in 2019 after triggering the £68million release clause in his Atletico Madrid contract.  
  He enjoyed four trophy-filled seasons in Bavaria, winning four Bundesliga titles, two DFL-Supercups, the DFB-Pokal, the Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup.  
  But the France international, who can play at either left-back or centre-back, struggled with injury problems and made just 74 Bundesliga appearances for the club.  
  He was sold at a considerable loss in the summer of 2023, joining Paris Saint-Germain in a deal worth an initial £34million.  
  7= Matthijs de Ligt – £68m  
  Despite only being 24 years old, De Ligt has already been involved in two big-money transfers.  
  His most recent move saw him swap Juventus for Bayern Munich in 2022 after the Bundesliga side agreed to pay an initial £59.5million and a further £8.5million in add-ons.  
  The centre-back won the DFL-Supercup and the Bundesliga in 2022/23 and was also named in the Bundesliga Team of the Season.  
  He fell down the pecking order following the arrival of Kim Min-jae in the summer of 2023 but has now reclaimed his place in Thomas Tuchel’s starting XI.  
  5= Wesley Fofana – £75m  
  Fofana spent two seasons at Leicester City and established himself as one of the best young defenders in the Premier League.  
  The Foxes rejected three bids from Chelsea in the summer of 2022 before accepting a fourth offer of £70million upfront and an additional £5million in bonuses.  
  “It is a recognition of my work, but I’m trying not to think of the fee because that can quickly put me under a lot of pressure,” he said after completing the move. “It’s important that I keep the enjoyment of playing football.”  
  But injuries have plagued his first two years at Stamford Bridge, limiting the 23-year-old to just 20 appearances in a Chelsea shirt.  
  5= Virgil van Dijk – £75m  
  Eyebrows were raised in January 2018 when Liverpool bought Van Dijk from Southampton in a £75million deal – a then-world record fee for a defender.  
  But the centre-back has more than proved his worth, helping Liverpool win the Premier League, two Carabao Cups, the FA Cup, the Champions League, a UEFA Super Cup and the FIFA World Club Cup.  
  He’s also picked up a host of individual accolades, including the PFA Players’ Player of the Year award and the UEFA Men’s Player of the Year award in 2018/19.  
  The 32-year-old initially struggled after suffering an anterior cruciate knee ligament injury in October 2020 but has since rediscovered his best form.  
  3. Matthijs de Ligt – £77.1m  
  The aforementioned De Ligt became one of the most sought-after players in the world after captaining Ajax to the Champions League semi-finals and the Eredivisie title in 2018/19.  
  Juventus forked out an initial £67.7million and another £9.4million in potential add-ons for the then-19-year-old, making him the third-most expensive teenager of all time.  
  He won the Serie A title in his debut season and the Coppa Italia in 2020/21 but failed to replicate his Ajax form in a Juventus shirt.  
  The Netherlands international fell out of favour under Massimiliano Allegri in the 2021/22 campaign and was sold to Bayern Munich at a slight loss.  
  2. Josko Gvardiol – £77.6m  
  After winning the treble in 2022/23, Manchester City bolstered their defensive options by signing Gvardiol from RB Leipzig in a £77.6million deal.  
  “First of all, he’s a central defender left, that’s not easy,” Guardiola said. “His physical condition is really, really good and his build-up with his left foot is also really, really good.  
  “He is 21 years old so when you buy, of course, it’s a lot of money, but when you are 21 years old, it is not a problem. He will be with us for the future and that’s what we think.”  
  The Croatia international, who can play at centre-back and left-back, is a brilliant prospect but has struggled to adapt to the pace of Premier League football and is yet to justify that huge fee.  
  1. Harry Maguire – £80m  
  Having missed out on De Ligt in the summer of 2019, Manchester United switched their attention to Maguire and agreed to meet Leicester City’s £80million asking price.  
  The centre-back enjoyed a strong start to life at Old Trafford and was given the captain’s armband in January 2020, but his form took a nosedive amid United’s struggles in the 2021/22 season.  
  The 31-year-old has played a more prominent role in Ten Hag’s side in 2023/24, but he still faces an uncertain future at Old Trafford.  
  Related Articles  
  Just how good could Leeds United have been if they got all their targets when Marcelo Bielsa was in charge? Here's how their lineup could have ended up  
  Southgate has issued an emphatic response to claims he will become the next Man Utd manager after sending a strong message to the under-pressure Ten Hag  
  West Ham will attempt to sign Man Utd defender Harry Maguire for the second straight summer and the surprise magic number that could seal a deal has been revealed  
  A loaned out Liverpool player might be the answer to who replaces Joel Matip at Anfield next season, while a clear winner has emerged in the debate over who is having the better season between Saliba and Van Dijk  
  About Manchester City  
  Manchester City live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Manchester City next match  
  Manchester City will play the next match against Arsenal on Mar 31, 2024, 3:30:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Manchester City vs Arsenal live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Manchester City matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Manchester City previous match  
  Manchester City fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Manchester City scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Manchester City performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Manchester City matches.  
  Current Manchester City players  
  Forward: Jérémy Doku Midfielder: Kevin De Bruyne, Bernardo Silva, Jack Grealish, Matheus Nunes Defender: Joško Gvardiol, Rúben Dias, Kyle Walker, John Stones, Nathan Aké Goalkeeper: Ederson, Stefan Ortega Unknown: Erling Haaland, Julián Álvarez, Phil Foden, Rodri, Mateo Kovačić, Manuel Akanji, Rico Lewis, Sergio Gómez, Oscar Bobb, Scott Carson  
  The current Manchester City roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Manchester City top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  The height of the column represents match difficulty at the time, based on odds.  
  About Manchester City  
  Manchester City live scores, players, season schedule and today’s results are available on Sofascore.  
  Manchester City next match  
  Manchester City will play the next match against Arsenal on Mar 31, 2024, 3:30:00 PM UTC in Premier League.  
  When the match starts, you will be able to follow Manchester City vs Arsenal live score, standings, minute by minute updated live results and match statistics.  
  We may have video highlights with goals and news for some Manchester City matches, but only if they play their match in one of the most popular football leagues.  
  Manchester City previous match  
  Manchester City fixtures tab is showing the last 100 football matches with statistics and win/draw/lose icons.  
  There are also all Manchester City scheduled matches that they are going to play in the future.  
  Manchester City performance and form graph is a Sofascore unique algorithm that we are generating from the team's last 10 matches, statistics, detailed analysis and our own knowledge.  
  This graph may help predict future Manchester City matches.  
  Current Manchester City players  
  Forward: Jérémy Doku Midfielder: Kevin De Bruyne, Bernardo Silva, Jack Grealish, Matheus Nunes Defender: Joško Gvardiol, Rúben Dias, Kyle Walker, John Stones, Nathan Aké Goalkeeper: Ederson, Stefan Ortega Unknown: Erling Haaland, Julián Álvarez, Phil Foden, Rodri, Mateo Kovačić, Manuel Akanji, Rico Lewis, Sergio Gómez, Oscar Bobb, Scott Carson  
  The current Manchester City roster, stats and player performance can be found on this page.  
  There are also statistics for each player in all competitions with all total played and started matches, minutes played, number of goals scored, number of cards and much more.  
  Manchester City top scorers list is updated live during every match.  
  You can click on players from the roster above and see available personal information such as nationality, date of birth, height, preferred foot, position, player value, transfer history etc.  
  Live scores service at Sofascore livescore offers sports live scores, results and tables. Follow your favourite teams right here live! Live score on Sofascore.com livescore is automatically updated and you don't need to refresh it manually. With adding games you want to follow in "My games" following your matches livescores, results and statistics will be even more simple.  
  Team News  
  Holders Manchester City will come up against record 14-time winners Real Madrid in the Champions League quarter-finals after being paired together in Friday's draw, meaning the sides will meet in a third consecutive season in the competition.... more »  
  Pep Guardiola said Manchester City survived a second-half "tsunami" from Liverpool to secure a 1-1 draw that leaves three sides separated by just one point at the top of the Premier League.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola face off for the final time in the Premier League on Sunday with the title on the line for two coaches who have defined an era in English football.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp on Friday hailed Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola as the best manager of his lifetime as he prepares his Liverpool team for what could be the final chapter in their captivating rivalry.... more »  
  Manchester City cruised into a seventh consecutive Champions League quarter-final as a much-changed side still put FC Copenhagen to the sword 3-1 on Wednesday to progress 6-2 on aggregate.... more »  
  Team News  
  Manchester United ended Liverpool's quest for a quadruple of trophies in Jurgen Klopp's final season after Amad Diallo's winner edged a thrilling FA Cup quarter-final 4-3 after extra-time.... more »  
  Virgil van Dijk says the intensity of Liverpool's bitter rivalry with Manchester United will make Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final a major test for his quadruple chasers.... more »  
  Jurgen Klopp believes Mohamed Salah is ready to wreak more damage on Manchester United in Sunday's FA Cup quarter-final as the Egyptian gets back up to speed after a lengthy hamstring injury.... more »  
  Everton paid for conceding two first-half penalties at Old Trafford as Manchester United bounced back to winning ways to keep their Champions League hopes for next season alive with a 2-0 victory on Saturday.... more »  
  Erik ten Hag believes he may have won up to three-quarters of his first 100 matches at Manchester United were it not for a punishing injury list that he said no team could cope with.... more »  
  Thank you for using Footballcritic. Start by talking about your audience, not yourself.  
  A Complete Guide to Manchester City: Origin, History  
  FC  
  A Complete Guide to Manchester City: Origin, History, and Winning Rate  
  Manchester City Football Club, often referred to as Man City, is a popular football club founded in 1880 as St. Mark's Church.  
  11:08am on Wednesday 8th September 2021 By Team FC  
  Manchester City Football Club, often referred to as Man City, is a popular football club founded in 1880 as St. Mark's Church. The club was founded by Arthur Connell, the rector of St Mark's Church, and his daughter, Anna Connell. It underwent several name changes as Gorton FC and Ardwick AFC before settling on Manchester City in 1894.  
  The early years of the club were marked by regional success. Manchester won their first major honor, the FA Cup, in 1904. However, it wasn't until the late 1960s that the club enjoyed a golden era under the leadership of manager Joe Mercer and captain Tony Book. During this time, it clinched the First Division title, FA Cup, League Cup, as well as the Cup Winners' Cup in 1970.  
  The club quickly rose to its current status under the management of individuals like Roberto Mancini and, later, Pep Guardiola. Under Guardiola, the team secured back-to-back Premier League titles in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019. The 2020-2021 season saw another Premier League victory along with the UEFA Champions League title. This further solidified Manchester City's status among Europe's elite clubs.  
  Statistics-wise, according to a 2022/2023 report, City won 44 of 61 games in all competitions, giving it a robust win percentage of just over 72%. It also remains unbeatable in Champions Leagues and the FA Cup.  
  The current Manchester City owner is Sheikh Mansour, an Abu Dhabi billionaire who bought Manchester City for a reported £210 million in 2008. He has invested hundreds of millions more into the club and the community surrounding the club ever since.  
  While Sheikh Mansour’s early reign saw great financial losses due to player recruitment and building better facilities, the club has turned a profit and revenue has increased in recent years. The Deloitte Football Money League noted that City are the sixth richest football club in the world, with a revenue of over £460 million.  
  The current Manchester City football stadium was originally called the City of Manchester Stadium or the Eastlands before it was renamed the Etihad Stadium, the name it is known today. It was built for the Commonwealth Games held in Manchester in 2002.  
  The club moved from Maine Road to the Etihad in 2003 after converting it into a sole football stadium. The Manchester City stadium capacity is currently 55,097 and is expected to increase to 61,000 with the upcoming expansion in the North Stand.  
  Betting for Manchester City  
  With City becoming a high-profile team, it is a popular team to bet on. Manchester City transfer odds are incredibly popular to bet on, particularly in the close season. Betting on fixtures is common, particularly for important matches such as Manchester City vs. Manchester United.  
  If fans want to try their hands at betting, they can do so via an English Premier League (EPL) bookie. A bookmaker, turf accountant, or bookie accepts and pays out bets on sports. Keeping up with recent technological advances, there has also been a rise in crypto accepting EPL bookie.  
  Aside from being able to show their support for their favorite club, betting with crypto offers various advantages for fans. Fans are able to maintain complete anonymity with no third party being allowed access to their private information. Furthermore, betting with crypto allows payouts to be made instantly without the need to wait for lengthy processing times and complex withdrawal processes.  
  Latest news  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Watford and Leeds on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Blackburn and Ipswich on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Sheffield Wednesday and Swansea on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between Southampton and Middlesbrough on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the upcoming Lincoln City vs Leyton Orient EFL League One game on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Here are our predictions for the EFL Championship tie between QPR and Birmingham on Friday, March 29th 2024.  
  Accessibility links  
  Manchester City conquer Europe - 53 years on from their first European trophy  
  By Chris BevanBBC Sport  
  Last updated on 10 June 202310 June 2023.From the section Man City  
  A version of this article first appeared on the BBC Sport website in April 2020.  
  It turns out Erling Haaland is not Manchester City's first star striker to be famous for marking important wins by strutting around in his underpants afterwards.  
  If City beat Inter Milan on Saturday to win the Champions League for the first time, the aftermath could witness echoes of their first and - so far - only European triumph, 53 years ago.  
  Haaland might need to up his game, too. According to popular legend, City's celebrations after lifting the European Cup Winners' Cup in April 1970 involved the matchwinner, England forward Francis Lee, dancing on a piano wearing only his briefs.  
  After talking to Lee, it turns out that particular tale is only partially true but there were plenty of unusual elements to City's success that were completely factual.  
  They include why the game was watched by a record number of travelling fans from England, but by absolutely no-one back home - although it still gave commentary legend Barry Davies his big break at the BBC.  
  A torrential downpour ruined the night in Vienna for City's WAGS but did not prevent the players from partying and, three decades before City were banned then readmitted to Europe, the victorious Blues threatened to stage their own boycott afterwards.  
  What is also undisputed is that a club so often derided by rival fans for having "no history", let alone any track record in Europe, were ahead of some now established Champions League giants when it came to pioneering success on foreign fields.  
  City's 2-1 triumph in Austria against crack Polish side Gornik Zabrze meant they brought home a continental trophy to go with their domestic silverware before the likes of Liverpool (1973 Uefa Cup) and Juventus (1977 Uefa Cup).  
  Even the mighty Barcelona (1979 Cup Winners' Cup) had to wait another nine years for a Uefa-sanctioned title to go with their wins in the Inter City Fairs Cup, which would evolve into the Uefa Cup but was an independent invitational competition, initially only open to cities hosting international trade fairs, for many of the years when Barca dominated it in the 1950s and 60s.  
  Franny's Grand Slam  
  Pep Guardiola's current City side are well known for collecting trophies, with two already this season following 11 others in the previous five campaigns - but in Lee's day they also had a ferocious appetite for silverware.  
  Under the genial Joe Mercer and his innovative assistant Malcolm Allison, an all-English City side with an exciting attack-minded style had won every domestic competition going in the previous 24 months, and they were far from finished.  
  "In that 1969-70 campaign, I used to talk to the other players about 'Franny's Grand Slam'," Lee explained in 2020, on the 50th anniversary of their victory in Vienna. "I had the attitude that we should try to win everything we took part in.  
  "We were going down to London on the train for a league game near the start of the season and in the middle of playing cards when Glyn Pardoe said 'look, there's Wembley!'  
  "I said 'get used to the view, because that is where we are going to do the Grand Slam this year'."  
  Lee was half right. He had wanted the quadruple but had to settle for a unique double instead.  
  While City lost against neighbours Manchester United in the fourth round of the FA Cup and slid down the league table after Christmas, they made it to Wembley in March and beat West Brom in the League Cup final.  
  Not many people would get to see them add the Cup Winners' Cup to their haul a few weeks later, however.  
  The forgotten final, missed by millions  
  On the same evening City played Gornik, the infamous FA Cup final replay between Chelsea and Leeds was screened live by both BBC One and ITV, with 28.5m people watching - still the sixth-biggest audience for any event in British television history.  
  There were only three TV channels in the country at that point - BBC Two being the other - so City had to settle for a highlights show late that evening, instead of being the main event.  
  Barry Davies was sent to Austria to provide the commentary, but it remains the only European final featuring an English team not to be shown live in England.  
  "I was trying to work out why the hell I was doing that match," Davies told BBC Sport. "That answers the question.  
  "I had only joined the BBC the previous September so in normal circumstances I would not have got a European final.  
  "The Cup Winners' Cup was a big deal at the time. Not as much as the European Cup of course, but even so it was considered a very important trophy. I am surprised the final was played the same night as the FA Cup final replay."  
  As well as Davies, at least 4,000 City fans had made the 1,000-mile journey to Austria too.  
  At the time, it was the biggest away support an English club had taken abroad - but the total crowd in the vast 90,000-capacity Prater Stadium was a disappointing one.  
  With Poland behind the Iron Curtain, only a handful of Gornik fans were given visas allowing them to attend, and some horrific weather deterred all but the most hardy neutrals.  
  "The thing that everyone who was there will remember from it was the horrendous conditions that the match was played in," added Davies.  
  "The rain was torrential and it was non-stop, but there was no roof on the stadium, in fact there was no cover anywhere at all with the exception of the commentary box that I was in.  
  "So I do remember there was a very small crowd, and all of them got absolutely drenched very quickly once the rain started. At least half of them were City fans, and despite the weather they were a good bunch.  
  "City had a really fine side at that point too of course. I knew a lot of them because of my time working for Granada (regional ITV in the north-west) in 1968, when they won the title.  
  "Mike Summerbee, who missed the final because he was injured, was a lovely player. Colin Bell was a class act and I was big fan of Franny's as well."  
  'The score did not reflect City's dominance'  
  It was Lee who was the star of the show on this particular night, ably assisted by Neil Young on the left flank.  
  Young swept home the rebound to put City ahead in the 12th minute, after Lee's shot had been spilled by the Polish side's keeper Hubert Kostka.  
  Then Lee doubled City's lead from the spot just before half-time, after Young had been taken out by Kostka as he ran in on goal.  
  "Neil played very well that night. That foul on him was so bad the keeper would have been sent off twice these days," added Lee, who despatched his penalty with typical conviction.  
  Gornik replied midway through the second half but City comfortably held on for the win.  
  "We were very confident, we were a good side and we always thought we would win," recalled Lee. "It was raining very hard and there were puddles on the pitch but we knocked it about well and we created several chances.  
  "The guy who was marking me was called Jerzy Gorgon, and he was as big as Desperate Dan, but I still did pretty well against him.  
  "We were 2-0 up by half-time but it could have been three or four by then. They scored a good goal to pull one back in the second half but the final score was not a true reflection of what the game was about."  
  Celebrations that carried on and on  
  This was a night to remember for City's players, but possibly not for their partners.  
  "The thing that stands out in my mind is that there was a Uefa banquet afterwards for the team and the officials, and the players' wives were all there too," Davies added.  
  "The weather during the day was quite nice so they had got themselves ready before the match but, like everyone else, they had no shelter from the rain at the stadium.  
  "By the end of the game they were a bedraggled bunch and I felt so sorry for them when I saw them."  
  That did not seem to affect City's celebrations for long, however.  
  "It was very late when we got back to the hotel because Uefa put on one thing and another, and then all our wives were there which slowed things down a bit," added Lee, who had turned 25 on the day of the final.  
  "But their hair was still bedraggled after dinner and they did not want to come out, so us lads all went out on our own.  
  "It was my birthday the same night, so I had a lot to celebrate, then we eventually got back to Manchester about 4pm the following day and we went out and had another celebration dinner there. That took care of Thursday night too - it went on and on.  
  "It was some time on Friday before I got home, and I had not been to sleep since before the game."  
  As for the story about Lee dancing on a piano in Vienna that Allison used to tell?  
  "Yes, I was on top of the piano while our chief scout, Harry Godwin, was playing away," explained Lee.  
  "But I was sat on it not stood up, and I was giving them a song or two - not dancing. I would definitely have been fully clothed as well, because I was not one for walking around without my trousers on."  
  'Our name is on it and history can never erase it'  
  City's then vice-chairman Frank Johnson evidently did not enjoy Vienna as much as Lee and his team-mates did.  
  Johnson threatened to pull the club out of Europe the following season because of Uefa's choice of venue for the final, and complained they had lost money on the tie because of the small crowd.  
  "That is typical of the old directors' view of looking at it," said Lee, who had a place in the boardroom himself when he was City's chairman between 1994 and 1998.  
  "I don't think it mattered if you lost money or made money - we won the trophy, which was an important trophy in Europe, and it made a big difference to the reputation of the club."  
  The Cup Winners' Cup no longer exists but was held for 39 seasons before being absorbed into the Uefa Cup - now itself known as the Europa League - in 1999.  
  City got as far as the semi-finals when they defended their title in 1970-71 before losing to eventual winners Chelsea.  
  Before this season, they had only got past the last four in any European competition on one occasion since - when they lost in the final of the Champions League in 2021, again to Chelsea.  
  In contrast to 1970, the world will be watching when they try to end their long wait for more European glory in Istanbul in front of an estimated global TV audience of 450m.  
  "Of course European success is important for what City are trying to achieve now," added Lee. "But it was the same for us.  
  "I am proud of what we did, and the way we did it. Our name is on the trophy and history can never erase it."  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Manchester - A Football History  
  内容简介 · · · · · ·  
  Published to coincide with the UEFA Cup final, staged at the City of Manchester Stadium, in May 2008 and to mark the 400th anniversary of football being banned in Manchester (that's right football was banned in Manchester in 1608!). The book provides the stories of Manchester's greatest footballing achievements, while also answering questions such as: Why did football in Manche...  
  Published to coincide with the UEFA Cup final, staged at the City of Manchester Stadium, in May 2008 and to mark the 400th anniversary of football being banned in Manchester (that's right football was banned in Manchester in 1608!). The book provides the stories of Manchester's greatest footballing achievements, while also answering questions such as: Why did football in Manchester develop the way it did? How do the Manchester sides compare in terms of local support, trophy success, and so on. Manchester - A Football History will prove to be the definitive story of football in the Manchester region. Following the success of his Channel M series on the same subject, writer and football historian Gary James' latest book details the story of Mancunian football from the Middle Ages through to the modern day. The book reveals many new and interesting stories and also tries to spell out many significant events that have shaped the region's football development. Manchester - A Football History focuses on the League/former League sides of Bury, City, United, Oldham, Rochdale, Stockport and Stalybridge Celtic, but also takes a look at all the local clubs who have at some point in their history attempted to join the League. Within the pages of this book stories can be read highlighting: * the banning of football in the city four hundred years ago * why rugby and football share a few Manchester firsts * Manchester's role in the national formalisation of the game * which Manchester side was the first English team to play competitive football in Scotland * why a street in Wolverhampton contains a memorial to an old Mancunian ground * Which present day League side wanted to change its name to Manchester Football Club during the early 1890s but was blocked by the FA * how Bury found major success before any of the region's other sides * for the first time the true date when Newton Heath became Manchester United * how City benefited by having one of the biggest newspaper barons of the 20th Century as chairman * the scandal that led to the formation of the PFA * how a City director led United's 1909 FA Cup homecoming * how the region's most successful manager of the period walked out on one of the region's sides to manage their biggest rivals * the story of how Tameside's only League representatives resigned because of lack of support despite getting crowds higher (on average) than Rochdale's all time average * how City and United combined to stop a third Manchester side from threatening their existence * what Rochdale achieved 8 years before City, 20 years before United, and 27 years before Oldham * how supporters are beginning to regain control of the game within the region Manchester - A Football History will contain over 200,000 words on more than 500 pages (size 248x174mm) with photographs throughout. Hyde born Gary James has been working on this book for over a decade: "Mancunian football has always been a passion of mine, however I've always been surprised to find that the full history has only ever been considered from the angle of individual clubs. Clearly, each side within the region has a history worth investigating on its own, however I've always felt that the relationships between our clubs and the stories of the region have been neglected. In fact we've often played down the achievements of our region as a whole to focus on one or two sides." As part of Gary's research he has interviewed players, fans, and other figures from many different aspects of the game in the region in his quest to create the definitive story of football in the Manchester region: "I believe the book has helped unravel some of the mysteries of the Mancunian game and, for the first time, I have tried to tell the story from the beginning of the game through to the modern era. I've got to say that I've been amazed by some of what I've discovered."  
  Manchester City 4-0 Fluminense: Julian Alvarez scores twice as English side win Fifa Club World Cup  
  Last updated on 22 December 202322 December 2023.From the section Football3858  
  Julian Alvarez scored twice as Manchester City won the Fifa Club World Cup for the first time by beating Brazilians Fluminense in Saudi Arabia.  
  Pep Guardiola's side, taking part in the tournament after winning last season's Champions League, made the ideal start as Alvarez struck after 40 seconds, chesting in from close range after Nathan Ake's long-range strike hit the post.  
  They added a second in the 27th minute when Nino turned Phil Foden's cross into the back of his own net.  
  England's Foden then got on the scoresheet himself in the second half when he darted through the middle to prod in Alvarez's cross, before the Argentine forward got his second in the 88th minute with a clinical strike into the far corner.  
  Success meant City emulated Manchester United, Liverpool and Chelsea in lifting the Club World Cup, but became the first English side to win five major trophies in a calendar year.  
  The Treble of Premier League, FA Cup and Champions League last season was followed by the Uefa Super Cup in August.  
  "It was an incredible year," said Guardiola. "Today we closed the chapter. We won everything we could. Now time to try again."  
  But some of the shine was taken off their victory by the sight of Rodri - so influential for the side - going off injured towards the end of the second half.  
  Meanwhile, Egyptian side Al Ahly claimed third place with a 4-2 win against Urawa Red Diamonds of Japan.  
  City seal another title to round off memorable 2023  
  City's win in Jeddah completed a trophy-laden and unforgettable year for the club.  
  Although winning the Club World Cup has often carried less importance for English sides, Guardiola had spoken of his determination to "close the circle" and lift the trophy he believed would complete City's collection.  
  While this was their first appearance in the tournament, Guardiola had won it before with Barcelona and Bayern Munich and underlined his desire to triumph again by naming a strong line-up.  
  The outcome was a dominant display by the reigning Premier League champions, with goalkeeper Ederson largely untested aside from a Jhon Arias header just before half-time, and a late John Kennedy strike.  
  "We were a little lucky at the start, we got the ball and scored early and then they had an incredible 10-12 minutes that made you realise how tough it would be," added Guardiola.  
  "The second goal helped us, but maybe we didn't deserve it. We adjusted something in the second half and we were much, much better."  
  City will celebrate before switching focus back to domestic matters, with their next game an away trip to Everton on Wednesday, 27 December.  
  With one win in their last six Premier League games, they will hope to use the momentum of their confident victory, and accolades of being crowned world champions, to get their title defence back on track.  
  Rodri concern after midfielder limps off  
  While City fans will be pleased to see another piece of silverware added to their trophy cabinet, they will be concerned by midfielder Rodri going off in the 74th minute.  
  The midfielder was hurt by a challenge from Alexsander and looked in pain as he received treatment.  
  Rodri was able to get back on his feet and attempted to continue, but was substituted to avoid risking him further.  
  City have struggled when the Spaniard has been absent this season, with their three defeats in the Premier League coming without him in the side.  
  Live Text  
  Post update  
  Full Time  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Samuel Xavier (Fluminense) wins a free kick on the right wing.  
  88'  
  Goal!  
  Goal! Manchester City 4, Fluminense 0. Julián Álvarez (Manchester City) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Matheus Nunes.  
  Post update  
  Foul by Julián Álvarez (Manchester City).  
  86'  
  Substitution  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Corner, Fluminense. Conceded by Ederson.  
  79'  
  Post update  
  Attempt saved. John Kennedy (Fluminense) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. Assisted by Germán Cano.  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by TheFutureIsUnwritten, at 20:11 22 Dec 2023TheFutureIsUnwritten  
  20:11 22 Dec 2023  
  Well done Manchester city. That tackle on Rodri was disgusting and nasty. Glad City's football ⚽ won over a side more interested in fouling than football ⚽. Notts County fan.  
  506  
  143  
  B  
  Reply posted by Bloomoon, at 20:21 22 Dec 2023Bloomoon  
  20:21 22 Dec 2023  
  to TheFutureIsUnwritten  
  "  
  Well done Manchester city.That tackle on Rodri was disgusting and nasty.Glad City's football ⚽ won over a side more interested in fouling than football ⚽.Notts County fan.  
  86  
  Comment posted by gonnienawdaethat, at 20:11 22 Dec 2023gonnienawdaethat  
  20:11 22 Dec 2023  
  Well done Man City; World Champions!!! I'm not a Man City fan but I am so chuffed for them due to the scintillating football they play. Pundit Robbie Savage was clearly unimpressed, judging by his commentary, playing down the fact that City have totally outplayed their South American opponents, typical Man U fan! I also love that all other 'fans' hate them! Jealous??? 😂😂😂  
  464  
  173  
  B  
  Reply posted by Bluefrom1964, at 20:17 22 Dec 2023Bluefrom1964  
  20:17 22 Dec 2023  
  to gonnienawdaethat  
  "  
  Well done Man City; World Champions!!! I'm not a Man City fan but I am so chuffed for them due to the scintillating football they play. Pundit Robbie Savage was clearly unimpressed, judging by his commentary, playing down the fact that City have totally outplayed their South American opponents, typical Man U fan! I also love that all other 'fans' hate them! Jealous??? 😂😂😂  
  "  
  Bluefrom1964 replied:  
  Robbie Savage doesn't know what he's talking about that's all you need to know.  
  442  
  Reply posted by Sandy , at 22:19 22 Dec 2023Sandy  
  Comment posted by Stu, at 20:11 22 Dec 2023Stu  
  20:11 22 Dec 2023  
  Banged in 4 past Real Madrid, 3 past Bayern Munich in the UCL, won the EPL, and now put 4 past Fluminese..... Who's the best club team in the World?  
  394  
  129  
  P  
  Reply posted by Plastikman5, at 20:14 22 Dec 2023Plastikman5  
  20:14 22 Dec 2023  
  to Stu  
  "  
  Banged in 4 past Real Madrid, 3 past Bayern Munich in the UCL, won the EPL, and now put 4 past Fluminese..... Who's the best club team in the World?  
  148  
  Comment posted by gonnienawdaethat, at 20:26 22 Dec 2023gonnienawdaethat  
  More replies (13)  
  Comment posted by budgie2021, at 20:20 22 Dec 2023budgie2021  
  20:20 22 Dec 2023  
  City City best team in the land and all the world 5 trophies yes 5 Never been done before Fantastic CHAMPIONS  
  258  
  112  
  O  
  Reply posted by One Step Beyond, at 20:21 22 Dec 2023One Step Beyond  
  20:21 22 Dec 2023  
  to budgie2021  
  "  
  City City best team in the land and all the world 5 trophies yes 5 Never been done before Fantastic CHAMPIONS  
  "  
  One Step Beyond replied:  
  115 charges has never been done before as well 😂😂😂😂  
  Reply posted by Lucifer, at 20:31 22 Dec 2023Lucifer  
  Comment posted by jackh, at 20:11 22 Dec 2023jackh  
  20:11 22 Dec 2023  
  Do we really need a bigger club World Cup when Europe’s best team (the best confederation) destroyed South America’s best team (the 2nd best confederation probably)?  
  99  
  18  
  D  
  Reply posted by David, at 20:44 22 Dec 2023David  
  20:44 22 Dec 2023  
  to jackh  
  "  
  Do we really need a bigger club World Cup when Europe’s best team (the best confederation) destroyed South America’s best team (the 2nd best confederation probably)?  
  "  
  David replied:  
  No, as it will probably mean that an European team will beat another team in the final. It also means that it’s very likely that the team winning the World club championship will be a different European team that wins the Chsmpions league only 2 months earlier  
  50  
  2  
  More replies (9)  
  C  
  Comment posted by Cookiecrumble, at 20:10 22 Dec 2023Cookiecrumble  
  Reply posted by Hugh67, at 20:46 22 Dec 2023Hugh67  
  Comment posted by stew, at 06:59 23 Dec 2023stew  
  06:59 23 Dec 2023  
  Alvarez currently holds for club/country: Premier League FA cup Champions League Super Cup Club World Cup Confederations Cup Copa America World Cup Not bad for a 23 year old!  
  64  
  1  
  T  
  Reply posted by Ten green bottles, at 11:12 23 Dec 2023Ten green bottles  
  11:12 23 Dec 2023  
  to stew  
  "  
  Alvarez currently holds for club/country: Premier LeagueFA cupChampions LeagueSuper CupClub World CupConfederations CupCopa AmericaWorld CupNot bad for a 23 year old!  
  8  
  Comment posted by Northern Lights, at 20:14 22 Dec 2023Northern Lights  
  20:14 22 Dec 2023  
  As much as I don’t like the background to all this, they can only beat who they have to beat so well done on the achievement City. 👏  
  68  
  11  
  Removed comment  
  N  
  Comment posted by numptylad, at 20:12 22 Dec 2023numptylad  
  20:12 22 Dec 2023  
  4 trophies in a season, wonder how long it will be before this is done again. Well played City. Now watch the sad ones who cannot accept that City are World, European and Premier Champions as well as FA Cup winners.  
  122  
  75  
  H  
  Reply posted by Hot Bovril Cold Pie, at 20:15 22 Dec 2023Hot Bovril Cold Pie  
  20:15 22 Dec 2023  
  to numptylad  
  "  
  4 trophies in a season, wonder how long it will be before this is done again. Well played City. Now watch the sad ones who cannot accept that City are World, European and Premier Champions as well as FA Cup winners.  
  "  
  Hot Bovril Cold Pie replied:  
  Thats the first trophy they won this season, the treble was las season.  
  103  
  More replies (46)  
  H  
  Comment posted by hopelad, at 20:56 22 Dec 2023hopelad  
  20:56 22 Dec 2023  
  Football rivalry aside, congratulations to City on wining the club World Cup. Any club that wins five trophy’s in a calendar year deserves recognition!  
  Local rival fan.  
  51  
  14  
  S  
  Reply posted by Steve P, at 21:02 22 Dec 2023Steve P  
  21:02 22 Dec 2023  
  to hopelad  
  "  
  Football rivalry aside, congratulations to City on wining the club World Cup.Any club that wins five trophy’s in a calendar year deserves recognition!Local rival fan.  
  18  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Park double fires Man City to derby win over United and top of WSL  
  MANCHESTER -- A Jess Park brace helped Manchester City to a 3-1 home win over Manchester United in the Women's Super League derby on Saturday, taking them provisionally three points clear at the top of the table.  
  The home side's bid to win their first league title since 2016 stayed well on course in the first WSL game at the Etihad Stadium since December 2022, as City racked up their 11th straight win in the league in front of a 40,086 crowd.  
  City have 43 points, three ahead of Chelsea who are at West Ham on Sunday, while United remain fourth on 28 points, level with Liverpool who play Everton on Sunday and six points behind Arsenal who are away to Aston Villa, also on Sunday.  
  - Stream on ESPN+: NWSL, LaLiga, Bundesliga, more (U.S.) - Keogh: Derby defeat piles pressure on Man United boss Skinner  
  City opened the scoring in the 37th minute, when Leila Ouahabi's cross from the left was met by Park's first-time volley into the bottom corner, her first league goal for the club.  
  Eight minutes later and Park had her second. A short-corner move found Yui Hasegawa who floated a cross into the area, Alanna Kennedy headed the ball on and Park was there again to meet it first time and fire home from close range.  
  United had chances in the opening half before City broke the deadlock, with Nikita Parris and Geyse forcing Khiara Keating into saves, but immediately after the break the home side all but killed off any hopes of a comeback.  
  Park turned provider and her through ball found Bunny Shaw who took the ball into the area, got the better of Maya Le Tissier, before striking low into the far corner, making her City's all-time leading scorer with 68 goals.  
  The intensity went out of the game but United managed to pull one back in the 74th minute when Hannah Blundell's shot from out wide was deflected by City's Kerstin Casparij past Keating, but it was too little too late to spoil City's day. (Reporting by Trevor Stynes, editing by Pritha Sarkar)  
  Accessibility links  
  Man City 3-1 Copenhagen (6-2 agg): 'We are a team that believes we can do it' - Pep Guardiola  
  By Simon StoneBBC Sport at Etihad Stadium  
  Last updated on 7 March 20247 March 2024.From the section Man City  
  "We are a team that believes we can do it."  
  When you look at Manchester City's form in Europe and domestically, manager Pep Guardiola's words should be a surprise to no-one.  
  The Champions League holders swept aside Copenhagen 6-2 on aggregate to reach the quarter-finals for the seventh successive season and become the first English club to win 10 consecutive matches in the competition.  
  They did it despite leaving seven players out from the side that beat Manchester United on Sunday, with half an eye on this weekend's showdown with Liverpool at Anfield - as City bid to become the first side to win four English top-flight titles in a row.  
  And, as City remain with the chance of a historic double Treble, former Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand described them as a "juggernaut that needs to be stopped".  
  The ease with which City booked their last-eight spot alongside Bayern Munich, Paris St-Germain and Real Madrid suggests no-one will relish a two-legged encounter with the holders when the draw is made on 15 March.  
  And Guardiola feels it underlines a change of mindset at City since he arrived at the club in 2016.  
  "We arrived here from Barcelona and Bayern Munich, where the demand is to always be there," he said. "I felt the club - not the players - didn't feel it.  
  "Managers and hierarchies don't get time, but they gave us time to lose against Monaco [2017], against Liverpool [2018], against Tottenham [2019].  
  "It is easy for clubs that have big history - start with the best ones: Real Madrid, Barcelona, Liverpool, Bayern Munich or Manchester United, they have been used to it.  
  "Coming here, it was not about one person from Catalonia saying 'now we are going to win the Champions League'. They gave me time.  
  "Now we are a process where we can lose, definitely, but we can compete everywhere because we come from a final, a semi-final, a final and now the quarter-finals again. That means consistency."  
  Guardiola insisted his much-changed line-up came from his desire to get more energy into his team after their exertions against Manchester United. But none of the outfield players that started that match completed the full 90 minutes in this one.  
  Twice he was asked directly about Liverpool - who are a point ahead of Manchester City - and on both occasions he told his inquisitor to "ask me on Friday", meaning his pre-match media conference.  
  "It is not personal," he said. "I want to see you at my press conference on Friday. If I answer all the questions now, you will not come."  
  More history for Manchester City - the stats  
  Manchester City have won 28 of their past 30 home games in the Champions League. They are only the second side to go 30+ consecutive home matches without defeat in the competition, after Barcelona (38 from September 2013 to November 2020).  
  Manchester City are the first side in major European competition history to score 3+ goals in nine consecutive home matches, a run which started with a 5-0 win over FC Copenhagen back in October 2022.  
  Manchester City are heading for Anfield on Sunday unbeaten in 20 games in all competitions.  
  City have only lost one two-legged Champions League knockout tie in nearly five years.  
  They become just the third side to win 10 consecutive Champions League games, joining Real Madrid (2015) and Bayern Munich (2013, 2020).  
  Erling Haaland has now scored as many career Champions League goals as Sergio Aguero (41). He has done so in 42 fewer games.  
  Haaland has scored 10 goals in four appearances in the home legs of last-16 Champions League ties, netting six in two for Manchester City. Since his debut in the competition in September 2019, he is the outright overall top scorer with 41 goals, one ahead of Robert Lewandowski (40).  
  Can anyone stop the juggernaut?  
  It is all eyes on Anfield on Sunday as Liverpool, Manchester City and Arsenal compete in one of the tightest Premier League title races in years.  
  Just two points separate the three, with Ferdinand expecting Guardiola's men to be full of confidence.  
  He told TNT Sport: "Man City know what they are doing, they have been here before. The manager is a relentless force. The focus is there and this is a juggernaut that needs to be stopped."  
  Former Newcastle and Manchester City goalkeeper Shay Given added on BBC Radio 5 Live: "Anfield will be bouncing on Sunday, it's a really tough place to play.  
  "I think if City go there and get three points, which they can do, then they will go on to become the first team to win four Premier Leagues on the bounce."  
  If you are viewing this page on the BBC News app, or if it isn't displaying correctly in the BBC Sport app, please click here to vote.  
  Our coverage of Manchester City is bigger and better than ever before - here's everything you need to know to make sure you never miss a moment  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs and facilities throughout the UK.  
  Accessibility links  
  Man Utd WomenManchester United Women2Bristol City WomenBristol City Women0  
  Manchester United 2-0 Bristol City: Lisa Naalsund double earns United win  
  By Adam MillingtonBBC Sport  
  Last updated on 17 March 202417 March 2024.From the section Women's Football28  
  Lisa Naalsund's double proved enough for Manchester United to edge past Women's Super League strugglers Bristol City.  
  Naalsund gave United a ninth-minute lead, rolling the ball past her marker after a skilful run before firing past Shae Yanez.  
  The Red Devils had the majority of the ball and tried to find ways to extend their lead, but were unproductive in the final third until Naalsund turned home from a corner in added time.  
  Bristol City - who are bottom of the table with just six points from 16 games - had come close to equalising at 1-0 down when Shania Hayles rattled the post in the second half.  
  The visitors showed glimpses of their attacking threat, particularly with pace on the counter-attack, but didn't produce many clear-cut chances - just like United.  
  City's hopes were also hit when defender Jamie Lee-Napier was sent off in the 82nd minute after picking up a second yellow card.  
  Naalsund's second goal settled the outcome as United held out for a clean sheet and victory that kept them fourth in the table and six points behind third-placed Arsenal.  
  Bristol City miss chance for vital points  
  Time is rapidly running out for Bristol City.  
  Having returned to the top flight, they seem destined to be relegated back to the Championship at the first time of asking with a six-point deficit to West Ham United.  
  They have won just one game this season and have Chelsea, Manchester City and Arsenal left to play in their final six games.  
  Lauren Smith's side will be frustrated by the fact they were unable to pick up what would have been vital points against United, with Bristol City mostly holding their own on Sunday.  
  Their deep defending frustrated United, making it difficult for them to find a way to get behind their backline and reach any areas where they could threaten.  
  Barring the two goals, goalkeeper Yanez had little to do as United failed to show their superior quality.  
  The hosts continually tried to fashion more chances, knocking the ball around the visitors' third, but were often unable to disrupt Bristol City's defensive shape.  
  Naalsund's second goal, which came when she hooked a corner past Yanez in the fifth minute of stoppage time, meant the result glossed over a performance that had been far from convincing.  
  Her two strikes were the only shots on target for the Red Devils.  
  Reaching the Champions League is likely out of reach for United, who would need to close their six-point gap with Arsenal, but it is another step in the right direction nevertheless.  
  For Bristol City, this 12th defeat of a disappointing campaign was another missed opportunity to try to salvage safety.  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Mari Ward.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Maya Le Tissier (Manchester United Women) wins a free kick in the defensive half.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Foul by Amalie Thestrup (Bristol City Women).  
  90'+5'  
  Goal!  
  Goal! Manchester United Women 2, Bristol City Women 0. Lisa Naalsund (Manchester United Women) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Katie Zelem with a cross following a corner.  
  90'+5'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Mari Ward.  
  90'+1'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Geyse (Manchester United Women) right footed shot from the right side of the box is just a bit too high. Assisted by Lucía García.  
  90'  
  Substitution  
  Substitution, Bristol City Women. Lisa Evans replaces Ffion Morgan.  
  90'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Lucía García (Manchester United Women) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top right corner. Assisted by Katie Zelem with a cross following a set piece situation.  
  Post update  
  Delay over. They are ready to continue.  
  87'  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Foul by Sarah Stratigakis (Bristol City Women).  
  85'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Rachel Williams (Manchester United Women) left footed shot from outside the box is close, but misses to the left. Assisted by Lisa Naalsund.  
  84'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Abi Harrison.  
  83'  
  Comments  
  Join the conversation  
  Comment posted by Bernard Hedges, at 15:29 17 MarBernard Hedges  
  15:29 17 Mar  
  It's almost impossible to conceive there is a division below the "WSL" where Bristol City WFC was the top club last season and earned promotion. A couple of games in and it was painfully obvious they were going straight back down. The disparity in this division between the haves and the have-nots is more abyss than chasm.  
  5  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (2)  
  Comment posted by Guy Fawkes , at 17:20 17 MarGuy Fawkes  
  17:20 17 Mar  
  Play like this against city next week and we'll get hammered. I suppose every cloud has a silver lining because I definitely don't want Chelsea to win the league again!  
  9  
  2  
  D  
  Comment posted by David McManus, at 15:08 17 MarDavid McManus  
  Reply posted by Guy Fawkes , at 09:48 18 MarGuy Fawkes  
  0  
  S  
  Comment posted by ste, at 14:10 17 Marste  
  14:10 17 Mar  
  No disrespect to Bristol but this should have been an absolute carve up today. Predicable play as ever from Skinner. Predictable substitutions. Playing out from the back and creating very little up front. Needs an overhaul if we have any chance of breaking into the top 3  
  7  
  2  
  L  
  Reply posted by lozza, at 20:01 17 Marlozza  
  20:01 17 Mar  
  to ste  
  "  
  No disrespect to Bristol but this should have been an absolute carve up today. Predicable play as ever from Skinner. Predictable substitutions. Playing out from the back and creating very little up front. Needs an overhaul if we have any chance of breaking into the top 3  
  "  
  lozza replied:  
  Agree would have been carve up but Bristol didn't have a shot on target. 3 shots against earps they would have won it. Also pathetic watching united players trying to get napier sent off.  
  2  
  3  
  L  
  Comment posted by longsandswhites, at 15:17 17 Marlongsandswhites  
  15:17 17 Mar  
  Very ineffective front line for United today. Nearly 70% possession and 2 on target  
  6  
  1  
  S  
  Reply posted by ste, at 18:44 17 Marste  
  18:44 17 Mar  
  to longsandswhites  
  "  
  Very ineffective front line for United today. Nearly 70% possession and 2 on target  
  "  
  ste replied:  
  absolutely right. 5 forwards played and it's a midfielder who scores twice.  
  2  
  1  
  G  
  Comment posted by Guy Fawkes , at 20:35 17 MarGuy Fawkes  
  20:35 17 Mar  
  I don't know why some people are obsessed with the crowd attendances, who cares as long as those who actually attended the game enjoyed it.  
  6  
  3  
  Removed comment  
  L  
  Comment posted by lozza, at 19:51 17 Marlozza  
  19:51 17 Mar  
  Clean sheet at last for United. Earps returns to her best. Oh just seen the stats no shots on target that explains it.  
  3  
  3  
  P  
  Comment posted by Pete Hannam, at 20:38 17 MarPete Hannam  
  20:38 17 Mar  
  Bristol City were good in parts but not good enough its harder against the top sides in the WSL for Bristol City its about time that Bristol City were told that they have 2 years to improve otherwise they lose the right to be promoted to the WSL as they are just not good enough for the Women's Super League in my opinion.  
  1  
  5  
  S  
  Reply posted by Simon Holmes, at 21:29 17 MarSimon Holmes  
  21:29 17 Mar  
  to Pete Hannam  
  "  
  Bristol City were good in parts but not good enough its harder against the top sides in the WSL for Bristol City its about time that Bristol City were told that they have 2 years to improve otherwise they lose the right to be promoted to the WSL as they are just not good enough for the Women's Super League in my opinion.  
  "  
  Simon Holmes replied:  
  The game is all about opinions, I disagree with yours. presumably you'll also give Sheff Utd & Burnley 2 yrs to improve or no more Prem League.  
  5  
  2  
  More replies (1)  
  D  
  Comment posted by DeFund GLoopy AxeTVTax, at 17:34 17 MarDeFund GLoopy AxeTVTax  
  17:34 17 Mar  
  The haves are the trophy trams attached to glamorous premiere teams....the have not...are attached to...a vague hope  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Accessibility links  
  FA Cup semi-finals: Coventry to face Manchester United, Manchester City to play Chelsea  
  Last updated on 17 March 202417 March 2024.From the section FA Cup  
  Championship side Coventry City will face Manchester United in the FA Cup semi-finals, while holders Manchester City will play Chelsea.  
  Both semi-finals will take place at Wembley Stadium on the weekend of 20-21 April.  
  Coventry have not played in an FA Cup semi-final since they won the competition back in 1987, the club's only major trophy.  
  They are managed by former Manchester United striker Mark Robins, who helped the Red Devils win the FA Cup in 1990.  
  Twelve-time winners Manchester United last lifted the FA Cup in 2016, and were runners-up in the competition last season.  
  Holders Manchester City are looking to reach their 13th FA Cup final and are chasing an unprecedented second consecutive Treble.  
  Chelsea have reached five of the last seven FA Cup finals, last winning the competition in 2018.  
  Top stories  
  Listen to BBC Radio 5 Live and follow live text updates as Chelsea face Ajax in the Women's Champions League quarter-final second leg at Stamford Bridge.  
  Manchester City defender and former England captain Steph Houghton will retire at the end of the current Women's Super League season.  
  We've launched three separate channels - BBC Sport, BBC Football and BBC Cricket - to give you another way to stay up to date.  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Accessibility links  
  Man City WomenManchester City Women3Man Utd WomenManchester United Women1  
  Man City 3-1 Man Utd: Jess Park shines as Manchester City brush aside Manchester United  
  By Emma SandersBBC Sport at Etihad Stadium  
  Last updated on 23 March 202423 March 2024.From the section Women's Football445  
  Jess Park produced an outstanding display as Manchester City beat rivals Manchester United to keep up their Women's Super League title chase.  
  England forward Park, 22, scored twice and assisted one for Khadija Shaw as City brushed aside their neighbours at Etihad Stadium to move three points clear of Chelsea at the top of the table for at least a day.  
  United's hopes of qualifying for next season's Champions League have all but evaporated with the defeat as they trail third-placed Arsenal by six points, with the Gunners still to play Aston Villa on Sunday.  
  It was a damaging afternoon for United not just in terms of the result but also for their pride as rivals City, though not at their best, were ruthless in front of goal and left the Etihad as comfortable winners.  
  Park's opener should have been ruled out for offside by Shaw in the build-up but it was allowed to stand in the absence of a video assistant referee, as the midfielder volleyed home Leila Ouahabi's cross.  
  She doubled City's lead eight minutes later - celebrating in front of United's away fans in the corner on both occasions - and within seconds of the restart slid a pass through for Shaw to place her effort past goalkeeper Mary Earps.  
  Shaw's goal saw her overtake England midfielder Georgia Stanway as City's all-time record scorer in the WSL era with 68 goals.  
  United responded later in the second half when Hannah Blundell's cross was deflected into the far corner by City defender Kerstin Casparij, but the visitors could not get back into the game.  
  City, who are chasing a first WSL title since 2016, have equalled Chelsea's goal difference, but Emma Hayes' side will return to the top on Sunday if they beat West Ham.  
  Park masterclass deals major setback to United  
  With England manager Sarina Wiegman among the 40,086 watching on, Park enjoyed a hugely successful afternoon in Manchester.  
  The midfielder, now a regular in City's side following the anterior cruciate ligament injury to record-signing Jill Roord, proved her credentials as one of the country's most exciting talents with a mature display.  
  "The cherry on the cake we were looking for with Jess was goals and assists and she gave us that today, on the big stage," said City boss Gareth Taylor.  
  Park forced a strong save out of goalkeeper Earps midway through the first half after United had threatened, with Brazilian Geyse getting the better of Ouahabi down the right-hand side.  
  Chances had come and gone for the visitors - Nikita Parris was denied by Khiara Keating before Geyse stabbed wide - and Park's strike from distance was the first real opportunity for City.  
  That was the catalyst Taylor's side needed and they began to settle, testing Earps again through Yui Hasegawa before Park's quick double put them in the driving seat.  
  United's frustration at Shaw's role in Park's opener was justified but the Jamaican had a goal disallowed for offside moments later when she poked in a deflected rebound.  
  Shaw, who had earlier gone down claiming a foul from Blundell, with the United defender already on a yellow card, scored her record-breaking goal at the start of the second half as she produced a cool finish.  
  "'Bunny' is just a unique player, she really is," added Taylor. "Not only does she give us the goal, she's a big focal point for the team."  
  United, to their credit, did not give up in the second half but they had left themselves too much to do and while City must wait to see Chelsea's response on Sunday, Marc Skinner's side will be hoping fifth-placed Liverpool don't overtake them.  
  It is the latest blow in a disappointing campaign for United, while City look more and more capable of ending Chelsea's WSL dominance.  
  Live Text  
  Post update  
  Full Time  
  Second Half ends, Manchester City Women 3, Manchester United Women 1.  
  90'+9'  
  Post update  
  Attempt missed. Khadija Shaw (Manchester City Women) right footed shot from the centre of the box misses to the left. Assisted by Mary Fowler.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Filippa Angeldahl (Manchester City Women) wins a free kick in the defensive half.  
  90'+7'  
  Post update  
  Foul by Rachel Williams (Manchester United Women).  
  90'+5'  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Post update  
  Offside, Manchester United Women. Millie Turner is caught offside.  
  90'+4'  
  Post update  
  Attempt saved. Millie Turner (Manchester United Women) header from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom right corner. Assisted by Maya Le Tissier with a cross.  
  90'+3'  
  Post update  
  Corner, Manchester United Women. Conceded by Alanna Kennedy.  
  90'+2'  
  Reply posted by Wee Brian, at 14:43 23 MarWee Brian  
  Comment posted by blooms, at 14:47 23 Marblooms  
  14:47 23 Mar  
  Excellent performance from City. Shame to ship that late goal, especially from Blundell's cross. I think we can all agree she shouldn't have been on the pitch. In a way though, I'm glad it stayed 11 v 11 as it proves that City were just the better team overall. Comprehensive win.  
  59  
  9  
  R  
  Reply posted by Rrriot Boi, at 17:29 23 MarRrriot Boi  
  17:29 23 Mar  
  to blooms  
  "  
  Excellent performance from City.Shame to ship that late goal, especially from Blundell's cross. I think we can all agree she shouldn't have been on the pitch.In a way though, I'm glad it stayed 11 v 11 as it proves that City were just the better team overall.Comprehensive win.  
  "  
  Rrriot Boi replied:  
  If City had won 4-0, BBC might have given the opposition striker "player of the match" like they did with Shankland with Scotland yesterday.  
  9  
  1  
  V  
  Comment posted by VanImpe, at 14:40 23 MarVanImpe  
  4  
  Comment posted by must be aftershave, at 14:48 23 Marmust be aftershave  
  14:48 23 Mar  
  There is just no stopping Manchester City both the women's team or the mens team!  
  #93:20 #Centurions  
  61  
  30  
  Reply posted by N2019, at 14:54 23 MarN2019  
  14:54 23 Mar  
  to must be aftershave  
  "  
  There is just no stopping Manchester City both the women's team or the mens team! "Blue Moon"#93:20 #Centurions  
  "  
  N2019 replied:  
  Slight arrogance here? Men's team is behind 2 others and the women's team is on top but having played a game more than Chelsea, identical goal difference.  
  31  
  47  
  More replies (15)  
  V  
  Comment posted by viv, at 15:30 23 Marviv  
  15:30 23 Mar  
  Hasegawa and Park were brilliant. Both won the game for City. Womens football is getting better all the time, maybe not as fast and fluid as mens but nevertheless 'well done girls'. A good entertaining game.  
  31  
  5  
  N  
  Reply posted by N2019, at 15:40 23 MarN2019  
  15:40 23 Mar  
  to viv  
  "  
  Hasegawa and Park were brilliant. Both won the game for City. Womens football is getting better all the time, maybe not as fast and fluid as mens but nevertheless 'well done girls'. A good entertaining game.  
  "  
  N2019 replied:  
  I thought some of the passes in the game today were really crisp compared with times I've watched women's club game before, including some on quite clever angles that weren't easy to make. Where they might develop next is the ability for more players to get powerful shots into the top corners and score from further out. Felt like a couple went tamely at the keepers today.  
  7  
  2  
  More replies (4)  
  W  
  Comment posted by Wee Brian, at 14:38 23 MarWee Brian  
  14:38 23 Mar  
  Very comfortable win for City. United’s defence was at sixes and sevens for the goals and gave Mary Earps little protection. Well done to Park for the double and Shaw for her goal. She was far too strong for the opposition.  
  31  
  5  
  M  
  Reply posted by Monksie, at 14:47 23 MarMonksie  
  14:47 23 Mar  
  to Wee Brian  
  "  
  Very comfortable win for City. United’s defence was at sixes and sevens for the goals and gave Mary Earps little protection. Well done to Park for the double and Shaw for her goal. She was far too strong for the opposition.  
  "  
  Monksie replied:  
  Disappointed we didn't score more. Going 3-0 up so early in the 2nd half led to a question of "how many do you want?" but there you go.  
  13  
  4  
  More replies (4)  
  E  
  Comment posted by English drunkard, at 16:14 23 MarEnglish drunkard  
  16:14 23 Mar  
  Think Earp has lost her mojo. Her unwillingness to come out and attack the ball is a massive weakness.  
  31  
  6  
  C  
  Reply posted by Chelsea1967, at 16:37 23 MarChelsea1967  
  16:37 23 Mar  
  to English drunkard  
  "  
  Think Earp has lost her mojo. Her unwillingness to come out and attack the ball is a massive weakness.  
  15  
  Comment posted by BillyMeredith, at 16:10 23 MarBillyMeredith  
  16:10 23 Mar  
  It’s nice to see Jess Park flourish now. She’s always looked on the fringe of things but has certainly grabbed her opportunity this year. Very few players, Male or female, have that ability to run past an opponent with the ball under close control.  
  25  
  1  
  G  
  Reply posted by greylawn, at 17:07 23 Margreylawn  
  17:07 23 Mar  
  to BillyMeredith  
  "  
  It’s nice to see Jess Park flourish now. She’s always looked on the fringe of things but has certainly grabbed her opportunity this year. Very few players, Male or female, have that ability to run past an opponent with the ball under close control.  
  "  
  greylawn replied:  
  One day she will be able to do that, and maybe she will learn how to pass a ball as well  
  6  
  28  
  More replies (7)  
  K  
  Comment posted by Kryptonite, at 14:43 23 MarKryptonite  
  14:43 23 Mar  
  Yet another chastening for United. I've seen no progression from last season and with that result Liverpool (?) could now move up to fourth. Skinner needs to get this group playing street wise football again. Parris said the same ahead of the match but yet again the players are unable to execute.  
  23  
  3  
  B  
  Reply posted by bettmensch, at 15:27 23 Marbettmensch  
  15:27 23 Mar  
  to Kryptonite  
  "  
  Yet another chastening for United. I've seen no progression from last season and with that result Liverpool (?) could now move up to fourth. Skinner needs to get this group playing street wise football again. Parris said the same ahead of the match but yet again the players are unable to execute.  
  "  
  bettmensch replied:  
  losing batlle seems to have really rattled united's defense. she is absolute class but didnt necessarily "shine" last season, now at barca her ability is a bit more obvious. united hasnt been able to compensate, others arent stepping up in her absence. interesting to see whats in store for skinner going forwards  
  6  
  2  
  More replies (2)  
  G  
  Comment posted by Get the miles in, at 14:46 23 MarGet the miles in  
  Reply posted by chris, at 18:12 23 Marchris  
  Comment posted by Clive Bacon, at 16:26 23 MarClive Bacon  
  16:26 23 Mar  
  The Manchester Utd WFC goalkeeper would have halved the scoreline if she had a grasp of the basics.  
  10  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (8)  
  Comment posted by Greenheys23, at 14:51 23 MarGreenheys23  
  14:51 23 Mar  
  Manchester City, although winning 11 league matches on the bounce just can’t get in front of Chelsea on goal difference but above them on points for the time being. At least they are close to breaking Chelsea’s monopoly of this competition. Perhaps West Ham will do them a favour tomorrow.  
  24  
  9  
  M  
  Reply posted by must be aftershave, at 15:02 23 Marmust be aftershave  
  15:02 23 Mar  
  to Greenheys23  
  "  
  Manchester City, although winning 11 league matches on the bounce just can’t get in front of Chelsea on goal difference but above them on points for the time being.At least they are close to breaking Chelsea’s monopoly of this competition.Perhaps West Ham will do them a favour tomorrow.  
  "  
  must be aftershave replied:  
  Manchester City just have to keep "Chipping away" at the results and see how Chelsea fair - it's all to play for mults.  
  5  
  7  
  J  
  Comment posted by JOHN SPARTAN, at 16:53 23 MarJOHN SPARTAN  
  Reply posted by mark fisher, at 23:43 23 Marmark fisher  
  "  
  With VAR the 1st goal would be ruled out but Man U would be down to 10 players  
  "  
  mark fisher replied:  
  Whilst it was offside and whilst I agree it was a blatant foul and second yellow unfortunately as I understand it var couldn’t have looked at it as it clearly wasn’t a straight red.  
  0  
  R  
  Comment posted by richard, at 15:55 23 Marrichard  
  Reply posted by Cheshire Cat, at 16:15 23 MarCheshire Cat  
  Comment posted by g p t, at 17:13 23 Marg p t  
  17:13 23 Mar  
  Well the Man U manager got it all wrong again. Parris didnt show up again as always in the big games and Man U were better for bringing Williams on. Reckon she should have started the match . Man City were far superior in all areas and deserved more than the 54% possession shown on here. When it comes to the crunch UTD are just not good enough...  
  14  
  2  
  B  
  Comment posted by BigHelen, at 20:45 23 MarBigHelen  
  More replies (1)  
  Comment posted by godhelpus, at 18:10 23 Margodhelpus  
  18:10 23 Mar  
  Skinner is very much out of his depth and when Earp goes at the end of the Season he won't be far behind.  
  2  
  Removed comment  
  More replies (3)  
  Comment posted by Major Matt Mason, at 18:33 23 MarMajor Matt Mason  
  3  
  S  
  Comment posted by Steve, at 17:34 23 MarSteve  
  17:34 23 Mar  
  Enjoyable game. Good fight back by United after City's 3rd but still City fairly comfortable. One of the tougher remaining games for City. Going to be an interesting end to the season  
  Elsewhere on the BBC  
  The scandalous true story of Elizabeth Holmes and Theranos, starring Amanda Seyfried  
  Ten years after the Malaysian Airlines flight disappeared, new technology may explain why  
  Also in Sport  
  The Euros provide a golden chance for an England's masters of the missed opportunity to win their first major trophy since 1966  
  BBC Sport's F1 correspondent Andrew Benson answers your questions following the Australian GP.  
  Man City make history to reach 6th-straight FA Cup semifinal  
  Holders Manchester City became the first team in history to reach six consecutive FA Cup semifinals, thanks to two deflected strikes from Bernardo Silva that gave them a 2-0 win over a lacklustre Newcastle United at the Etihad Stadium on Saturday.  
  City made five changes from the side that started last weekend's 1-1 Premier League draw with Liverpool and still managed to cruise into the last four as Newcastle provided little resistance.  
  - Stream on ESPN+: LaLiga, Bundesliga, more (U.S.)  
  City took the lead in the 13th minute when a Silva shot took a wicked deflection off Newcastle defender Dan Burn, wrong-footing keeper Martin Dubravka and sending the ball looping into the net.  
  The home side went 2-0 up in the 31st minute, and again it was Portuguese playmaker Silva cutting in from the right and shooting, with Sven Botman's head helping to steer the ball past Dubravka.  
  Alexander Isak almost pulled a goal back in the 36th minute, but goalkeeper Stefan Ortega got down brilliantly to his left to keep the Swedish striker's bouncing shot out. It proved to be Newcastle's only effort on goal in the game.  
  Just after the hour mark, Newcastle manager Eddie Howe lost patience with his stuttering side and made four substitutions. Though the introduction of Miguel Almirón gave the visitors a much-needed injection of creativity in their attack, the home side quickly readjusted.  
  Erling Haaland and Jérémy Doku both had a number of chances to score, but manager Pep Guardiola will not be too bothered by their profligacy in front of goal as his side outclassed the visitors from start to finish.  
  "The team played well, we did exactly what the coach wanted us to do and we scored some nice goals, we scored some important goals, we defended well, we attacked well, so very happy," Doku told the BBC.  
  "We were in control but you never know, you always have to be careful with counter-attacks ... but I think the defenders did very well and we came back to help them as well," he added.  
  City join Coventry City, who pulled off a shock 3-2 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers earlier in the day, in the draw for the semifinals, which will be made after Sunday's remaining quarterfinal ties featuring Chelsea against Leicester City and Manchester United versus Liverpool.  
  For Newcastle, the defeat brings an end to any hope they had of winning silverware this season.  
  Information from Reuters contributed to this report.  
  Tickets are on sale for Chelsea vs. Manchester City FC at Ohio Stadium: Prices, how to buy  
  English football is coming to Ohio Stadium. And some tickets for the preseason friendly between Premier League rivals Chelsea and Manchester City FC Aug. 3 at Ohio Stadium are now on sale.  
  Presale tickets for the Chelsea vs. Manchester City match went on sale 10 a.m. Tuesday. All tickets will be made available at 8 a.m. Wednesday.  
  Columbus is one o four markets that will host Manchester City games this summer along with Chapel Hill, North Carolina, New York City and Orlando, Florida.  
  The Crew played their first home game at Ohio Stadium in April 1996 and used the facility as its home stadium from 1996-98. The Horseshoe also hosted an International Champions Cup game between Paris Saint-Germain and Real Madrid in front of more than 86,000 people in 2016.  
  The NHL confirmed Feb. 17 that it would host a Stadium Series meeting between the Blue Jackets and the Detroit Red Wings March 1, 2025 at Ohio Stadium.  
  Chelsea vs. Manchester City Columbus ticket prices  
  Tickets for the Chelsea vs. Manchester City match are starting at $81 in the south and north end-zone seats at Ohio Stadium. Lower bowl seats start at $121.  
  Chelsea vs. Manchester City Premier League resale ticket prices  
  Here's how much Chelsea vs. Manchester City tickets are going for on resale websites:  
  Tickets were available as of March 26 1t 10:08 a.m.  
  StubHub: Starting at $130  
  SeatGeek: Starting at $94  
  Get more Columbus Crew news by listening to our podcasts  
  A Brief History of Manchester United Football Club  
  Probably one of the most annoying questions that you get asked as a Mancunian is ‘Do you support United or City’? When you live in the home of probably the most famous football club in the world, it’s no surprise that everyone has the beautiful game on their minds. We’re not going to pick sides, but we’ve summed up the key moments in the history of Manchester United to create a little crib sheet to help visitors to fit in.  
  The Early Years  
  Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club, Manchester United’s first ever official match resulted in a 6-0 defeat to Bolton Wanderer’s reserve team, something that fans would struggle to believe possible today. The team entered the First Division (the leading division of the time) of the Football League in 1892, before being relegated after just two seasons.  
  In 1902, suffering debts of £2,670 (equivalent nowadays to around £260,000), team captain Harry Stafford found four local businessmen who were willing to invest £500 each in the club. This signalled a turn-around for the team, who officially changed their name to Manchester United and went on to be promoted back into the First Division, where they won the league title for the first time in 1908. The following season they won the first ever Charity Shield and their first FA Cup title, securing their place in the history books.  
  Become a Culture Tripper!  
  Sign up to our newsletter to save up to 500$ on our unique trips.  
  The Busby Years and Beyond  
  After the Second World War, Matt Busby took over the manager’s role at the club, one again turning everything around. For three years in a row, Manchester United finished second in the league, finishing top in 1952. Five years later, they became the first team to play in the European Cup, achieving an astonishing 10-0 win over Anderlecht during the tournament, a win which remains their biggest victory to date.  
  Perhaps the most famous moment in the football club’s history is also the most tragic. In 1958, returning from a European Cup victory against Red Star Belgrade, the plane carrying the football team and officials crashed during take-off from Munich, killing 23 passengers including eight players.  
  Busby recovered from his injuries and rebuilt the team through the 1960’s with the addition of iconic players such as Bobby Charlton and George Best, leading his new team to victory in the FA Cup in 1963. Five years later, after a string of league wins, Manchester United won the European Cup, the first English team to do so. Busby resigned as manager in 1969, replaced by former player Will McGuinness.  
  After poor results, Busby briefly returned as manager until Frank O’Farrell and subsequently Tommy Docherty rose to the challenge. Following a brief spell in the Second Division, Docherty managed to get the club back up to speed and they went on to win the league again in 1977, beating Liverpool 2-1. Although he had raised the club back to their former glory, Docherty was sacked soon after when it emerged that he’d been having an affair with the club physiotherapist’s wife.  
  The Alex Ferguson Years  
  The next decade saw a fairly non-descript period in the clubs history, with mediocre results yet a steady place in the First Division. It wasn’t until Alex Ferguson took over the manager’s role in 1987 that Manchester United began to edge their way towards the glory that they now hold.  
  In the first two seasons under Ferguson, the club only managed to secure 11th place in the league. In 1990, however, Manchester United celebrated a win in the FA Cup, shortly followed by winning their first Cup Winner’s Cup and the UEFA Super Cup. Then, it 1993, the team finally won the league for the first time since 1967, following their success the next season.  
  Continuing their string of victories, the club became the first to win ‘The Treble’ (the Premier League, FA Cup and UEFA Champions League) in 1999. Subsequently, Alex Ferguson was knighted and lauded as the greatest football manager in the world by many.  
  Throughout the next decade, Manchester United secured various victories including FA Cup titles and winning the Premier League several times. One of their most iconic players of this time period, Ryan Giggs made his record 759th appearance for the club in 2008, becoming a record-breaker. In 2013, the team won their 20th league title following a victory to Aston Villa at home at their iconic Old Trafford stadium.  
  Recent Years  
  To great dismay from fans, Alex Ferguson retired in 2013 and was replaced by David Moyes who only stayed with the club for ten months. Ryan Giggs subsequently took on the role as player-manager until Louis van Gaal took over in 2014. Despite finishing fourth then fifth in the Premier League under Van Gaal’s leadership, Manchester United managed to win the FA Cup for the 12th time. Jose Mourinho took over when Van Gaal was dismissed.  
  To date, the football club have won 20 League Titles, 12 FA Cup Titles, 5 League Cups, 21 Community Shields, 3 European Cups, one UEFA Cup Winner’s Cup, one UEFA Super Cup, one Intercontinental Cup and one FIFA Club World Cup. Alongside these victories, many of them records, Manchester United are also the highest-earning football club in the entire world and are widely regarded as having the most supporters across the world, more than any other football team.  
  KEEN TO EXPLORE THE WORLD?  
  Connect with like-minded people on our premium trips curated by local insiders and with care for the world  
  Since you are here, we would like to share our vision for the future of travel - and the direction Culture Trip is moving in.  
  Culture Trip launched in 2011 with a simple yet passionate mission: to inspire people to go beyond their boundaries and experience what makes a place, its people and its culture special and meaningful — and this is still in our DNA today. We are proud that, for more than a decade, millions like you have trusted our award-winning recommendations by people who deeply understand what makes certain places and communities so special.  
  Increasingly we believe the world needs more meaningful, real-life connections between curious travellers keen to explore the world in a more responsible way. That is why we have intensively curated a collection of premium small-group trips as an invitation to meet and connect with new, like-minded people for once-in-a-lifetime experiences in three categories: Culture Trips, Rail Trips and Private Trips. Our Trips are suitable for both solo travelers, couples and friends who want to explore the world together.  
  Culture Trips are deeply immersive 5 to 16 days itineraries, that combine authentic local experiences, exciting activities and 4-5* accommodation to look forward to at the end of each day. Our Rail Trips are our most planet-friendly itineraries that invite you to take the scenic route, relax whilst getting under the skin of a destination. Our Private Trips are fully tailored itineraries, curated by our Travel Experts specifically for you, your friends or your family.  
  We know that many of you worry about the environmental impact of travel and are looking for ways of expanding horizons in ways that do minimal harm - and may even bring benefits. We are committed to go as far as possible in curating our trips with care for the planet. That is why all of our trips are flightless in destination, fully carbon offset - and we have ambitious plans to be net zero in the very near future.  
  ‘They can be exposed’ – Bacary Sagna makes Manchester City v Arsenal prediction ahead of Premier League title clash  
  Share this with  
  Bacary Sagna has revealed his prediction as two of his former clubs – Arsenal and Manchester City – prepare to meet in a huge Premier League title clash this weekend.  
  Arsenal currently sit top of the Premier League on goal difference but know Man City will leapfrog them if they fall to defeat at the Etihad Stadium on Sunday afternoon.  
  But Mikel Arteta’s side have mounted another title challenge this season, winning 20 of their 28 league games to go top with ten games remaining.  
  Manchester City sit third – one point behind Arsenal and second-placed Liverpool – as they look for a sixth league title since 2018 and another historic treble.  
  Asked for his prediction for the Etihad showdown, Sagna told Paddy Power: ‘I can see Manchester City and Arsenal drawing at the Etihad.  
  ‘At home, Man City can be exposed because they attack so much and leave themselves open to the counterattack and we know how fast Arsenal’s players are.  
  ‘It’s a strength to attack so much because they can put any team under pressure, but Arsenal can also put pressure on teams, so I think it will be a draw.’  
  Speaking to Sky Sports in a separate interview, the ex-France star added: ‘I was at the Emirates and the Etihad for the games [between Arsenal and Man City] last year and I was impressed by the intensity.  
  ‘It was much faster than when I was playing. The pressing is really intense. The mangers don’t want to give room and space to top, top players because they will make things happen.  
  ‘It is one of the top games not just for the Premier League but also in Europe.’  
  Sagna also singled out Bernardo Silva ahead of Manchester City’s crucial clash with Arsenal, describing the Portuguese star as a player who makes all other teams ‘jealous’.  
  Silva has been integral to Man City’s recent success, making over 300 appearances for the European champions and winning 13 major trophies at the Etihad.  
  ‘Bernardo Silva is a top player who has a lot of quality on the ball and he’s very clever,’ Sagna said.  
  ‘It’s fantastic to have players like him in the team, along with [Erling] Haaland and Kevin de Bruyne because having players like that will make any team jealous.  
  ‘Bernardo Silva is having a big impact on the team and it’s not the first time, but he does step up towards the end of the season and shine more than usual. He’s just been class ever since he joined from Monaco.  
  ‘What we’re seeing now is a continuation of his talent. I would love to see him stay at the club because he’s one of the best in the world at his position.’  
  Brentford vs Manchester United: Prediction, kick-off time, TV, live stream, team news, h2h results, odds  
  Brentford host Manchester United this weekend as Erik ten Hag’s side look to show their latest positive result was no flash in the pan.  
  Too often this season, the Red Devils have slipped on a banana skin just as they threatened to build some serious momentum for a push towards qualifying for the Champions League.  
  However, after back-to-back wins including a triumphant FA Cup beating of Liverpool, they find themselves only six points off fifth place - which could very well deliver them back to Europe’s top table.  
  Up next are a Brentford team only five points off the Premier League relegation zone after losing to lowly Burnley before the international break.  
  Thomas Frank’s Bees have won just two of their last 17 games in all competitions.  
  Date, kick-off time and venue  
  Brentford vs Manchester United is scheduled for an 8pm GMT kick-off on Saturday, March 30, 2024.  
  The match will take place at the Gtech Community Stadium.  
  Scott McTominay was the hero as United beat Brentford in October  
  Manchester United via Getty Imag  
  Where to watch Brentford vs Manchester United  
  TV channel: In the UK, the game will be televised live on Sky Sports Main Event and Premier League.  
  Live stream: Subscribers can also catch the contest live online via the Sky Go app.  
  Live blog: You can follow all the action on matchday via Standard Sport’s live blog.  
  Brentford vs Manchester United team news  
  Keane Lewis-Potter will likely replace the suspended Sergio Reguilon while Ethan Pinnock could be fit to make his return to the defence.  
  Bryan Mbeumo is in line for a first Brentford start since December after making his comeback from an ankle injury before the break.  
  Amad Diallo is suspended following his red card for celebrating his winning goal past Liverpool. Antony and Mason Mount are pushing for starts after positive cameos off the bench in that game.  
  Brentford vs Manchester United prediction  
  The Bees’ terrible run of form is showing little sign of righting itself and, although United remain dogged by inconsistencies, they are the favourites in west London.  
  Since the Bees’ return to the top flight, they have lost four of five meetings with United - although they won this fixture 4-0 at the start of last season.  
  A Brief Guide On The History Of Football In Manchester  
  Post date  
  May 29th 2019  
  As the fastest growing city during the Industrial Revolution, Manchester saw a multitude of new working residents arriving from many parts of the British Islands. By 1990, the city had a total population of one million and became one of the largest cities in Europe. As football was a working man's sport at the time, Manchester became an ideal place for football clubs to emerge.  
  As the fastest growing city during the Industrial Revolution, Manchester saw a multitude of new working residents arriving from many parts of the British Islands. By 1990, the city had a total population of one million and became one of the largest cities in Europe. As football was a working man's sport at the time, Manchester became an ideal place for football clubs to emerge.  
  Manchester United  
  It was a journey that began in 1878 when a group of Lancashire and Yorkshire railway employees came together to form the Newton Heath L&YR Football Club. Rivalled by Manchester Football Club who formed in 1860 but later put their focus onto rugby, the soon to be Manchester United played in the Football League in 1892 until they saw relegation in 1894. It was in 1902 that Newton Heath was taken over by a group of businessmen who renamed the team to the name we know it as today. This period saw them winning the English League title in 1908 as well as the FA Cup the following year, all under the management of Ernest Mangnall. By 1910, Manchester United moved to their current stadium, Old Trafford.  
  Munich Tragedy  
  Post World War II, Matt Busby became the new manager of the team and guided them through a reshape of team values as well as placing a new faith into the younger members of the squad. This newfound managing technique proved successful for the ‘Busby Babes’ as they went onto win the league for two consecutive years and became the youngest side ever to win the tournament. 1958 saw a dark day for Manchester United after the European Cup game against Red Star Belgrade. Flying home from a stop off in Munich, the plane crashed tragically killing eight players and three staff members. Busby survived the disaster and he worked hard to rebuild a successful side that went onto win many titles.  
  Manchester United Make A Comeback  
  After Busby retired and became director, Manchester United saw many managers including Tommy Docherty, Dave Sexton and Ron Atkinson. It wasn’t until 1986 when the man that established the team as the most valuable global football brand was signed. After a rocky start, Alex Ferguson’s streak of success began when the team won the 1990 FA Cup final. Over the next 20 years, they won an astonishing 25 trophies including around 11 league titles. They became the first English club to win the FA Cup, Premier League and the UEFA Champions League concurrently during the 1998-1999 season before notoriously winning the league with a record 18 point margin in the 1999/2000 season.  
  Manchester City  
  The St Mark’s Football Team was the result of the initiative of church rector, Arthur Connell and his daughter Anna. In 1889, the team played against Newton Heath as part of a friendly fundraiser in aid of the coal mine explosion near Hyde Road Stadium which sadly killed 23 miners. Named Gorton FC and Ardwick FC for short periods of time, financial issues meant that the team was taken over, restructured and consequently renamed Manchester City in 1894 in the hopes to represent the entire city. After moving to Hyde Road Football Stadium, the team gained huge amounts of popularity which lead to their promotion to the First Division in 1899.  
  The 1923 Hyde Road fire meant that the team had to move to Maine Road where they broke attendance records with an incredible 84,569 home fans turning up to show support to the Sky Blues. It was shortly after this where the team saw a short period of deterioration with only a single FA Cup in three decades. They made their return to the top in the 1998/99 season where they became established as a Premier League team after winning the First Division ten points ahead of West Brom.  
  An Era of Change  
  By 2003, the construction of the City of Manchester Stadium was complete and became the new home to Man City. Later to be called the Etihad Stadium, this was where the team became one of the richest clubs in the world under the new ownership of Sheikh Mansour. The team have since become the first ever team in the Premier League to collect 100 points in one season and they have also recently won the Premier League, EFL Cup title and the FA Cup final to complete the first treble of English domestic men’s titles.  
  A Celebration of Manchester Football  
  Arguably the home of football, Manchester held the first meeting of representatives from the home nations football associations in 1886. The International Football Association Board was formed shortly after this meeting which created the rules later adopted by FIFA when they formed in 1904. The city is now the regular location for IFAB meetings. As well being the home to the two world-renowned Premier League teams, Greater Manchester also withholds Bolton Wanderers, Wigan Athletic, Rochdale, Bury and Oldham Athletic.  
  With football at the heart of the city, the National Football Museum originally opened in 2001 in Preston. It withheld a collection of over 140,000 boots, balls, programmes and postcards. With its doors closing to the public in 2010 due to issues with external funding, the European Regional Development Fund helped it to reopen in the Urbis building. With over 500,000 visitors through the door annually from all of the world, the museum has become a roaring success. It’s also the home to the shirt worn by Maradona in the 1986 World Cup quarter-final where he scored the iconic yet controversial ‘Hand of God’ goal, this was lent to the museum by Steve Hodge and is now part of his collection on display.  
  Hire a Football Speaker For Your Event  
  We have some of the biggest names in Manchester football at the Champions Football Speakers Agency. If you would like a Manchester United or Manchester City speaker to feature at your networking event, corporate event or conference, simply fill in our online contact form or by calling one of our booking agents directly on 0207 1010 553.  
  Champions League quarterfinal draw: Picks, predictions, more  
  With eight strong sides in the pot for Friday's Champions League quarterfinal draw, we knew we would get some incredible pairings in Europe's elite competition, but this draw really did deliver in terms of talking points, drama and entertainment value. From Manchester City vs. Real Madrid -- a rematch of last season's semifinal -- to PSG vs. Barcelona, there are storylines galore.  
  - Stream on ESPN+: LaLiga, Bundesliga, more (U.S.)  
  We also know the semifinal path for all eight sides, so let's break down the storylines, key players and make some predictions.  
  ARSENAL vs. BAYERN MUNICH  
  FIRST LEG: April 9 or 10 | SECOND LEG: April 16 or 17  
  Backstory/What you need to know  
  Look away, Arsenal fans. Bayern Munich have scored five goals past the Gunners in each of the past three encounters -- twice in 2017 and in 2015 -- and just to add to the sense of this being the worst possible draw in terms of history for Arsenal, the tie will see former Tottenham forward Harry Kane return to North London with Bayern to face his old foe.  
  Now this is clearly a different Arsenal to the teams that were humiliated by Bayern in their most recent meetings. Mikel Arteta's side are top of the Premier League and in the quarterfinals of the Champions League for the first time in over a decade, while Bayern face missing out on the Bundesliga title for the first time since 2011 this season.  
  But Bayern are unquestionably a bogey team for Arsenal.  
  In 12 previous meetings, Bayern have won seven and Arsenal just three, with two draws between the sides, but it is when the clubs meet in the knockout stages that things really get bleak for Arsenal. The two sides have met on four occasions in the Champions League knockout rounds and Bayern have emerged victorious each time, with the Germán giants winning 10-2 on aggregate in the 2016-17 round of 16 tie.  
  This isn't just about revenge for Arsenal: Beating Bayern is also about proving they belong against the very biggest European teams.  
  Key players and/or tactical battle  
  Arsenal's job in this game is simple: Stop Harry Kane. The England captain has scored 36 goals in 34 games in all competitions for Bayern since joining from Spurs last summer, and Arteta will need his best defender, William Saliba, to nullify Kane over the two games.  
  Saliba's absence in the final weeks of last season coincided with Arsenal's decline and eventual finish as runners-up to Manchester City in the Premier League, but he is back to his best this season and his head-to-head with Kane could decide the outcome of this tie.  
  How Arsenal can win  
  Beating Porto in the round of 16, albeit via a penalty shootout, was a key moment for Arsenal's young team in terms of their belief that they can succeed in the Champions League, but they will have to take it to another level against Bayern. Arsenal have the pace and energy, plus the creativity of Martin Ødegaard in midfield, to tear Bayern apart. It's all about Arteta ensuring that his players treat the game in isolation rather than contemplate the history and tradition of Bayern.  
  Historically this tie has not been much of a contest, but in the here and now, Arsenal are more than a match for Bayern. They just have to believe it.  
  How Bayern Munich can win  
  Bayern's experience is the key to their prospects of success, both in terms of their players and coach Thomas Tuchel. This Bayern squad is still stacked with players from their 2020 Champions League win, while Tuchel knows all about winning this competition having done so with Chelsea in 2021.  
  If the likes of Thomas Müller, Manuel Neuer, Joshua Kimmich, Leon Goretzka and Kingsley Coman perform, with Kane providing the goals, Bayern can overcome a confident young Arsenal side through sheer experience.  
  Prediction: Bayern Munich 3-2 Arsenal  
  This game is such a tough one to call, but Bayern have the nous and the advantage of the second-leg at home, so they will shade it.  
  ATLÉTICO MADRID vs. BORUSSIA DORTMUND  
  FIRST LEG: April 9 or 10 | SECOND LEG: April 16 or 17  
  Backstory/What you need to know  
  For two teams that have become such established Champions League competitors, this is a rare head-to-head fixture, with Dortmund and Atlético only meeting four times previously in the competition and never in the knockout rounds. But with such a heavyweight look to the quarterfinals, this matchup is probably the one that both clubs would have chosen in order to give themselves the best possible chance of reaching the semifinals and possibly even the final.  
  When Dortmund won the Champions League for the only time in 1996-97, they face Atléti twice in the group stage, winning 1-0 in Spain before losing 2-1 in the return fixture in Germany. When the sides met again in the 2018-19 group stage, Dortmund won 4-0 at home before losing 2-0 in Madrid.  
  But while the immediate priority is to get through this tie, the prize of winning is bigger than simply reaching the semifinals. With the favourites (Arsenal, Bayern, Real Madrid and Manchester City) in the other half of the draw, coaches Diego Simeone and Edin Terzic will be able to plot a route to the final at Wembley -- facing either Barcelona or PSG -- in the belief that they will each have a strong chance of success in the semis ... if they get there.  
  Key players and/or tactical battle  
  This tie is unusual in that it involved two teams who rely on the collective rather than individual brilliance to overcome opponents, but Dortmund's biggest task will be to win the midfield battle against Atlético. That is where the power lies in Diego Simeone's team, with the tenacity and industry of Koke, Marcos Llorente and Rodrigo De Paul behind the attacking quality of Antoine Griezmann, Álvaro Morata, Ángel Correa and Memphis Depay.  
  Can Dortmund match up with Emre Can, Marcel Sabitzer, Marco Reus and Julian Brandt? They have the ability, but do they have the work-rate to overcome Simeone's team?  
  How Atlético Madrid can win  
  Atlético eliminated an Inter Milan side that is flying at the top of Serie A this week by displaying the classic qualities that Diego Simeone has imposed on his teams -- work-rate, never-say-die attitude and underappreciated quality. If they have the same approach against Dortmund, Atlético's superior quality in every area of the pitch should see them through.  
  They also have a formidable home record to defend. Atlético haven't lost a Champions League knockout tie at home since a 3-2 defeat to Ajax in the 1996-97 quarterfinals. They have 10 wins and 7 draws since that loss.  
  How Borussia Dortmund can win  
  Manager Edin Terzic needs forwards Donyell Malen and Jadon Sancho to be at their absolute best over the two ties. Sancho limped out of the round of 16 second-leg win against PSV Eindhoven after scoring the opening goal, so getting the on-loan Manchester United winger fit for the quarterfinal will be crucial.  
  Dortmund have plenty of experience in Mats Hummels, Niklas Süle, Reus and Can, which is a positive for the Bundesliga side, but whether they can keep pace with Atlético over two legs remains to be seen.  
  Prediction: Atlético Madrid 4-2 Borussia Dortmund  
  Atlético have everything in their favour. They have a deeper squad, better players and a supreme coach in Diego Simeone.  
  REAL MADRID vs. MANCHESTER CITY  
  FIRST LEG: April 9 or 10 | SECOND LEG: April 16 or 17  
  Backstory/What you need to know  
  Reigning champions Manchester City against Real Madrid, the most successful club in Champions League history, in a tie that everybody wanted to see apart from the two teams themselves.  
  Pep Guardiola's City are the favourites to win the competition for a second straight year, but Real are arguably their strongest challengers, meaning this tie has plenty of danger for both sides. Real's desire for revenge after last season 5-1 aggregate semifinal defeat is another element to this clash. City and Real have met in each of the last two seasons and the winners of the tie have gone on to win the competition, underlining the pedigree of the two teams and the coaches, with Guardiola (three) and Carlo Ancelotti (four) having seven Champions League titles between them.  
  This tie has everything. It pits the best two coaches against each other, gives us Jude Bellingham versus Erling Haaland and other great names including Kevin De Bruyne, Toni Kroos, Rodri and Vinicius Jr. It would have made a dream final, but ultimately, one of the best sides in the competition will be exiting at the quarterfinal stage.  
  Key players and/or tactical battle  
  Jude Bellingham has arguably made himself the best midfielder in the world at Real this season, but by the same token, no defensive midfielder can compare to Rodri right now -- the winner of this tie could come down to who comes out on top in that battle. It's not a direct head-to-head, but it is about which player is able to set the tempo: Real's Bellingham or City's Rodri.  
  City were in the running to sign Bellingham from Borussia Dortmund last summer before the England player chose instead to move to Real, and they could be set to discover exactly what they missed out on.  
  How Real Madrid can win  
  Real were blown away by City in a 4-1 second-leg defeat in last season's semifinal because they had now answer to Pep Guardiola's powerhouse midfield. If Real are to avenge that loss this time around, they need to win the midfield battle, but they have the benefit of having Bellingham in their ranks now, with Eduardo Camavinga and Aurélien Tchouaméni a year older and wiser, plus the experience of Kroos.  
  There is so much attacking quality in both sides, but Real need to beat City in midfield before relying on their forwards to seal the win.  
  How Manchester City can win  
  Despite his incredible season last year, Erling Haaland didn't score in his two games against Real in the semis. Having destroyed Real in midfield a year ago, Pep Guardiola will want his team to have a different gameplan to beat the Spanish giants, so they will need Haaland to have his shooting boots on this time.  
  If Haaland can take 2-3 of the chances that his teammates create, it could be too much for Real. The pressure will be on him to step it up from last season's performance.  
  Prediction: Manchester City 4-2 Real Madrid  
  Manchester City aren't quite as formidable as last season, but they have a goalscorer in Haaland and Real haven't really replaced Karim Benzema. In a tie of fine margins, that's what will count.  
  PARIS SAINT-GERMAIN vs. BARCELONA  
  FIRST LEG: April 9 or 10 | SECOND LEG: April 16 or 17  
  Backstory/What you need to know  
  A tie dripping with recent history and humiliation experienced by both teams. When it goes wrong in PSG vs. Barcelona clashes, it really goes wrong, so can we expect another meltdown in this quarterfinal tie?  
  Back in 2016-17, PSG travelled to Barcelona with a 4-0 first-leg advantage in their round of 16 tie and seemingly cruising into the quarterfinals, but a Lionel Messi-inspired Barça produced the most stunning fightback in Champions League history to win 6-1 in Camp Nou. Four years later, PSG gained revenge by winning 4-1 in Camp Nou on their way to a 5-2 round of 16 triumph, so the best advice for this tie is to expect the unthinkable.  
  This is a meeting between two teams in the midst of a transitional phase. PSG are rebuilding following the departures of Messi and Neymar last year and the impending exit of Kylian Mbappé this summer, while Barcelona are struggling to remain competitive as they combine financial problems with the expensive Camp Nou upgrade. They also face uncertainty over their on-field future, with coach Xavi stepping down at the end of the season.  
  Despite the issues at both clubs, this is still a game that pits Mbappe against Robert Lewandowski and gives both a shot at a run to the final at Wembley.  
  Key players and/or tactical battle  
  This all revolves around whether Barcelona can get their best players off the treatment table and onto the pitch. Midfielders Frenkie de Jong and Pedri are both sidelined, with Pedri hopeful of returning by the end of March and De Jong expected to be fit by mid-April -- just as the quarterfinals are scheduled to begin.  
  With Ferran Torres also pencilled in for a late-March/early-April comeback, the Barcelona medical staff could yet decide the outcome of this tie.  
  How Paris Saint-Germain can win  
  Luis Enrique's team were expected to find it tough against Real Sociedad in the round of 16, but they cruised to a 4-1 aggregate victory with Kylian Mbappe scoring three times for PSG over the two games.  
  With Mbappé set to leave PSG at the end of the season, his performances against La Real hinted at the France forward being on a personal mission to deliver the one trophy he has yet to win for the club and Enrique simply needs to keep his star player fit and focused on that goal.  
  If Mbappé is on fire again in this tie, PSG go through.  
  How Barcelona can win  
  This looks a tough task for Barcelona and where their Champions League journey will end due to the question marks over the fitness of key players and the prospect of facing an on-form Mbappé. If the likes of Ilkay Gündogan and Lewandowski can summon all their experience for potentially their last shot at winning another Champions League, Barça could take PSG all the way in this tie.  
  The reality is that Barça need all the help they can get because unfortunately for them, this looks the most predictable tie of the round.  
  Prediction: PSG 4-1 Barcelona  
  On paper, this is a clash between two heavyweight clubs, but Barça are not the Barça of old and PSG should win comfortably.  
  PATH TO THE FINAL  
  Semifinal 1: Atlético/Dortmund vs. PSG/Barcelona  
  Semifinal 2: Arsenal/Bayern vs. Real Madrid/Man City  
  OK, we also know the semifinal and final path for all eight teams. Who will win it all on June 1?  
  The path to the final has given us a formidable quartet in one half and four outsiders in the other, but ultimately, the winner is likely to come from the Real Madrid-Man City tie.  
  So back City to defend their crown at Wembley in June, with Atlético Madrid once again having to suffer the pain of being a losing finalist.  
  Club History  
  Manchester United’s club history cements them as one of the most iconic football teams on the planet. Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club, the club has a rich and storied history. The club now plays in the Premier League and are the division’s most-successful team with 20 top-flight titles won.  
  Club name  
  The club’s original name was a nod to the humble origins as a team for railway workers in the Newton Heath area. But the club later changed their name to better reflect their status in 1902. While fans took inspiration from their red shirts for their nickname, the Red Devils.  
  Since 1910, Manchester United have called Old Trafford home. The ground has undergone a number of renovations and expansions over the years to become one of the largest football stadia in the UK. The club also played at North Road and Bank Street over their earlier years.  
  Manchester United badge  
  The club’s crest has also evolved over the years with the Red Devils using seven designs thus far in their history. Manchester United have kept with their current badge since 1998, while the Red Devil made its debut in the 1970s after its rise under the legendary Sir Matt Busby.  
  Kit history  
  Manchester United’s iconic red kit is one of the most recognisable sporting strips anywhere in the world. The club have experimented with the shade of the jersey over the years, along with white and blue away strips. In the early years, the club also used green and yellow tops.  
  League history  
  Manchester United have played in almost every division of English football throughout their history. The team first stepped foot into the First Division in 1906/07 after lifting the Second Division title. They often remained a regular before the Premier League was formed in 1992.  
  Since then, Manchester United have been a dominant force in the English game with a high of 13 Premier League titles. No team has won more league crowns all in than the Red Devils with 20, as well. While the club has also won the FA Cup 12 times and six EFL Cup trophies.  
  Manchester United trophies  
  Manchester United have won multiple trophies not least three European Cups, including an iconic treble-winning season in 1998/99. The Red Devils became the first, and only, side to lift a top-flight title, European Cup and FA Cup in one year under their legendary coach, Sir Alex Ferguson.  
  Players and managers  
  Manchester United’s history is filled with a raft of talented players and managers over the years. Matt Busby and Sir Alex Ferguson are two of the most iconic coaches to ever grace a touchline, with team’s success under the former leading to the nickname of the Busby Babes.  
  The Busby Babes earned their name after helping Manchester United rise from the ashes of World War II. Busby oversaw the club’s first trophy in almost 40 years with the 1948 FA Cup before adding a league crown in 1952. It sparked a dominant era in the Red Devils’ history.  
  Ferguson later oversaw another dominant era in Manchester United’s history from 1986 to 2013. The Scot led the Red Devils to two European cups, 13 Premier League titles and five FA Cup crowns. They even won the top-flight three seasons in a row twice under his watch.  
  Iconic players like Sir Bobby Charlton, Denis Law and Ryan Giggs have also left their mark on Manchester United’s history. No player has yet featured for the Red Devils more often than Giggs with 949 appearances. While Wayne Rooney is the club’s record goalscorer with 253.  
  England vs Belgium TV channel, live stream and how to watch Euro 2024 warm-up clash  
  Gareth Southgate's Three Lions will take on Belgium at Wembley Stadium this evening as he takes a final look at his players before naming his Euro 2024 training squad  
  England return to action for a final time this regular season when they host Belgium at Wembley Stadium in an international friendly.  
  The clash between the two European nations will be the final time both managers will be able to view their players in action before naming their training squads for the European Championships in Germany this summer. For fans of both Manchester City and Manchester United, there will be plenty of familiar faces to watch out for.  
  While Kyle Walker and Harry Maguire may have left the England squad due to injury; Phil Foden, Rico Lewis, John Stones, Kobbie Mainoo and Marcus Rashford could all feature for the home team. Meanwhile, City will be keeping a close eye on Jeremy Doku who could feature for the Red Devils.  
  As this is the final time you can watch England in the regular season, MEN Sport has taken a look at how you can follow all the action.  
  What time is kick-off?  
  Tonight's friendly between England and Belgium will kick-off at 7.45pm in the UK.  
  How can I watch the match?  
  Fans in England will be able to view the match on the free-to-air Channel 4. Coverage starts at 7pm as host Jules Breach is joined by Joe Cole, ex-City midfielder Jill Scott and ex-United midfielder Marouane Fellaini.  
  The fixture will also be streamed on Channel 4's on-demand service All 4. If you are not in England, don't worry as international broadcasters also have the rights to the game.  
  In Belgium, it will be shown on VTM and La Une. Meanwhile, the United States' rights have been secured by ViX and in Canada DAZN will be showcasing the action.  
  When will the highlights be shown?  
  If you are not able to watch the game live, don't panic. Channel 4 will be broadcasting highlights in the early hours of Wednesday morning at 12.05am in the UK.  
  The football season is now upon us and with 500 live games to watch, as well access to Cricket, Golf, F1, Boxing, NFL and the NBA across eight dedicated channels, Sky Sports is the only way to watch all the action.  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  ‘It just came out’: Eric Cantona reveals inspiration for 1995 seagulls comment  
  Former Manchester United star says his near-30-year silence on subject has been his revenge on the press  
  It was one of the most baffling utterances ever made by a footballer.  
  When Eric Cantona said at a 1995 press conference: “When the seagulls follow the trawler, it is because they think sardines will be thrown into the sea,” everyone was left scratching their heads.  
  What on earth did it mean? Was Cantona not only a star striker but a philosopher to boot? All he would say by way of explanation was: it meant what it meant.  
  Now, after decades of speculation and analysis, the 57-year-old has said it was just the first thing that came into his head after he was forced to speak to journalists. And his almost 30-year silence on the subject was a sort of revenge against the press who he said had “destroyed” him.  
  The former footballer turned photographer, actor, documentary maker, sports’ coach, poet and now singer made his supposedly profound seagulls and sardines statement after being ordered to speak to the press to explain his notorious kung-fu kick on an abusive Crystal Palace fan at an away game at Selhurst Park in January 1995.  
  Cantona was banned until the end of the season and narrowly avoided being sent to jail for assault after a two-week prison sentence was reduced to community service. However, the press had a field day.  
  Manchester United were criticised for taking 36 hours to ban him, while the Mirror described it as “the night football died of shame” and called Cantona “the madman” and the Express accused him of “absolute thuggery in front of children”. Brian Clough, the outspoken former Nottingham Forest manager, said of the player that he would have “cut his balls off”.  
  The kick was shown 93 times on television over the following two days. Cantona would later say he had just one regret: “I would have loved to have kicked him harder.”  
  Appearing this week on the popular French chatshow C dans l’air to perform a song from his new album, Cantona laughed as he recalled how the phrase had thrown the British press into a frenzy.  
  “After the [court] judgment they [Manchester United] absolutely wanted me to speak to the press. I didn’t want to but they said it’s important you have to speak to the press. So I said, OK I will speak to the press, in the sense that they want me to speak – I’ll say any old thing.  
  “They wanted me to speak, I spoke. It just came out and then I left. And the press, they all tried to find a sense to it and make it all philosophical. You know, it just came out like that; maybe it came from my subconscious and maybe unconsciously it created a sense, but the best sense of it was, you make me speak, I speak and who cares whether the words make sense.”  
  Cantona – who scored 82 goals for United and won four league titles and two doubles – added: “You know, they [the press] destroyed me. But in a way I have had my revenge. They were all trying to find a meaning and they all asked me to explain and I said nothing.”  
  The seagulls feature in his song I Love You So Much from his recently released album, Cantona Sings Eric. The song is dedicated to Manchester and he performed it to a rapturous audience in the city last October at his first official concert.  
  “[The people of Manchester] gave me so much, I wanted to give something back. Manchester in the 1990s was Manchester United,” Cantona told C dans l’air, adding: “We were rock stars. I grew up, spent time with the club that succeeded and won after 26 years without titles, it was such a hopeful town and still is now.”  
  The star, who played himself in the 2009 Ken Loach film Looking for Eric and has never knowingly undersold himself, added: “I sing ‘then the press called me the greatest philosopher … and I think they were completely right’. And they were right.”  
  More on this story  
  More on this story  
  Archive, 1993: Manchester United exit Europe at Galatasaray – match report  
  Manchester faithful lap up Eric Cantona’s raspy whisper and jazz groove  
  ‘I can do everything but be humble’: Eric Cantona on his surprise new music career  
  The United Way review – Eric Cantona’s over-simple Manchester United history  
  Eric Cantona and 'the hooligan': the impact of the kung-fu kick 25 years on  
  Eric Cantona: ‘Big democracies are, in a way, dictatorships’  
  Eric Cantona speech: humans 'will become eternal' – unless crime or war intervene  
  Eric Cantona sings with his family every morning. Should we all do the same?  
  "FC United" redirects here. For the women's football club from Jakobstad, Finland, see FC United (Jakobstad).  
  After ground-sharing between 2005 and 2014 with Bury at Gigg Lane, F.C. United opened their own ground, Broadhurst Park in north-east Manchester, in May 2015. The team was managed by Karl Marginson from its formation in 2005 until October 2017.[2] The current manager is Neil Reynolds, who took over as manager in October 2018 from David Chadwick who acted as temporary manager following Tom Greaves's resignation in August 2018.[3][4] The club's regular kit colours are red shirts, white shorts and black socks. Their badge is based on the Manchester coat of arms and features a ship at sea and three stripes for the three rivers that flow through Manchester.  
  After Heart of Midlothian and Exeter City, United is the third-largest fan-owned football club in the United Kingdom by number of members,[5] and has one of the highest home attendances in English non-league football. The club is democratically run by its members who have equal voting rights and own one share each in the club.  
  The club was founded in 2005 by disaffected supporters of Manchester United.[6] Although there were varying reasons for their dissatisfaction,[7][8] the catalyst for F.C. United's formation was the 12 May 2005 takeover of Manchester United by American businessman Malcolm Glazer.[9][10] Supporters first considered forming a breakaway club in 1998 during an attempted takeover of Manchester United by BSkyB.[11] The creation of F.C. United in the event of a Glazer buyout was first proposed in February 2005 by Manchester United fanzine Red Issue.[8][11]  
  Public meetings for fans were held on 19 May 2005 at the Central Methodist Hall in Manchester's Northern Quarter and on 30 May at the Apollo Theatre.[9] Subsequently, a steering group was created to set up the new club.[12] After the name "F.C. United" was rejected by The Football Association for being too generic, those who had pledged money to the club were asked to vote on a name.[13] On 14 June 2005, it was announced that "F.C. United of Manchester" had been chosen, beating "A.F.C. Manchester 1878", "Manchester Central", and "Newton Heath United",[13][14][15] and F.C. United were officially registered with the Manchester County Football Association on the same day.[16]  
  Karl Marginson was appointed as the club's manager on 22 June, and the club held trials for players four days later.[17][18] Around 900 players applied to take part in the trials, of whom 200 were chosen to take part and 17 selected to play for F.C. United.[19] Jonathan Mitten, great-nephew of Manchester United forward Charlie Mitten, was the club's first signing.[8]  
  F.C. United's inaugural members' meeting was held on 5 July 2005 at the Methodist Central Hall. Members voted on the club's constitution, badge, and core principles and elected the 11-member board.[20] By 6 July, over 4,000 people had pledged money to F.C. United and the club had over £100,000 in the bank.[21] During F.C. United's formation, the owners of Leigh RMI offered to merge the two clubs, but the parties decided against the idea.[22] F.C. United later arranged to play their first ever game against Leigh RMI on 16 July 2005; the match ended 0–0.[23]  
  For the 2005–06 season, F.C. United played in the Second Division of the North West Counties Football League (NWCFL), which is level ten of the English football league system and nine levels below the Premier League.[24] The club played its home matches at Bury's Gigg Lane.[24] F.C. United were ineligible to play in the FA Vase for their first season because the club was formed after the deadline to enter the competition. They were, however, able to play in the North West Counties League Challenge Cup.[25]  
  F.C. United's first competitive match was a 5–2 away victory against Leek County School Old Boys on 13 August 2005.[26] 2,590 people attended the game.[27] In its home debut on 20 August, the club defeated Padiham 3–2 with two goals from Rory Patterson.[28] During their first season, F.C. United consistently broke NWCFL attendance records. A crowd of 6,032 watched the team during their final home league match of the season against Great Harwood Town, which remains an NWCFL record as of 2016[update].[29] Despite losing that game 0–1, the team were promoted to Division One.[30]  
  F.C. United's successful 2006/07 season in Division One of the NWCFL earned the club a promotion to Division One North of the Northern Premier League.[31] They secured their second successive league title with a 7–1 win over Atherton Laburnum Rovers on 18 April 2007.[32] They then won their second cup of the season by beating Curzon Ashton 2–1 in the NWCFL's Challenge Cup final.[33] In the third round of the FA Vase competition, the club was eliminated when it lost 2–3 in the last minute of extra-time to Quorn.[34]  
  In 2007–08, F.C. United played in the inaugural season of the Northern Premier League (NPL) Division One North. They made their debut in the FA Cup that season, but lost 1–2 to Fleetwood Town in the first qualifying round.[35] They advanced to the final of the 2007–08 NPL President's Cup, in which they beat Radcliffe Borough 2–0 to pick up their fourth trophy in the three years following the club's formation.[36] The club finished the season second in the league, trailing champions Bradford Park Avenue by one point, and entered the play-offs for the other promotion place. After beating Bamber Bridge 3–2 in the semi-finals, F.C. United faced Skelmersdale United in the promotion play-off final, coming back from a goal down to win 4–1 and earn their third successive promotion to play in the Northern Premier League Premier Division.[37]  
  In 2008–09, F.C. United made their debut in the FA Trophy, reaching the third qualifying round, and missed out on a play-off place on the last day of the regular season.[38][39] In the 2009–10 season, they finished 13th in the league, their lowest league position in the first five seasons,[24] before progressing to the play-offs in 2010–11.[40] They beat Bradford Park Avenue 2–0 in the semi-finals but lost the final 0–1 to Colwyn Bay.[41][42] Earlier that season, F.C. United reached the first round of the FA Cup for the first time, recording victories over Radcliffe Borough, Gainsborough Trinity, Norton & Stockton Ancients and Barrow to play League One side Rochdale. They defeated Rochdale 3–2 after a late winner from Mike Norton,[43] and played eventual 2010–11 League One champions Brighton & Hove Albion in the second round. After a 1–1 away draw at Withdean Stadium, F.C. United lost the replay at Gigg Lane 0–4,[44] in front of their highest home attendance of 6,731.[45]  
  In the 2011–12 season, F.C. United reached the first round of the FA Trophy for the first time after knocking out Frickley Athletic, Durham City and Altrincham.[46][47] In the league, they qualified for the end of season play-offs, despite finishing 6th, due to the demotion of Northwich Victoria for breaching of financial rules.[48][49] They beat Chorley 2–0 in the play-off semi-final to qualify for consecutive play-off finals but lost 0–1 to Bradford Park Avenue in the penultimate minute of extra time.[50][51]  
  F.C. United finished third in the 2012–13 season to book a place in the play-offs.[52] They won 3–1 against Witton Albion in the semi-final,[53] but lost the final for the third consecutive time with a 1–2 defeat to Hednesford Town.[54] The following season, the club finished second in the league but lost in the play-offs in the semi-finals.[55][56] During the 2014–15 campaign, F.C. United reached the fourth round of the FA Trophy[57] and recorded a streak of 21 league games without a loss from December to April, including 16 victories.[58] They secured their promotion to the National League North following a 1–0 win against Stourbridge on 21 April 2015; after seven years of trying.[59] The club's top scorer for this championship winning season was Tom Greaves,[45] the same player who scored the winning goal for Bradford Park Avenue against F.C. United in the 2012 play-off final.[51]  
  F.C. United recorded their first victory in the National League North in a 3–2 home win over Brackley Town on 22 August 2015, which was the club's first competitive win at Broadhurst Park.[60] In October, for the second time in the club's history, they secured a place in the first round of the FA Cup with a 3–1 away win over Sporting Khalsa,[61] but were eliminated from the competition after a 4–1 home loss against Chesterfield.[62] In November, the club ended their cup runs for the 2015–16 season after two successive home defeats to Stalybridge Celtic 3–4 in the Manchester Premier Cup and to A.F.C. Telford United 1–2 in the FA Trophy.[63][64] Between September and November 2015, F.C. United lost seven consecutive league matches; their worst run ever as of April 2017[update].[45] They eventually finished the season in 13th place.[65]  
  The following 2016–17 season, the team again finished 13th and won the Manchester FA county cup for the first time in their history, beating Stalybridge Celtic 1–0 in the final.[66] After a poor start to the 2017–18 season, Karl Marginson, the team's first and only manager, left the club by mutual consent in October 2017.[2] He was replaced by forward Tom Greaves who took over on a temporary basis and was appointed permanent player-manager the next month.[67] F.C. United finished the season in 16th place and retained the Manchester FA county cup with a penalty shoot-out victory against Trafford F.C.[68] Greaves, who became the club's all-time record goal-scorer in December 2017, saw his contract extended until the end of the 2018–19 season.[69][70]  
  After a poor start to the 2018–19 season, Greaves left the club at the end of August 2018, with long-serving former player David Chadwick acting as interim manager.[71] In late October, the club appointed Neil Reynolds as first team manager.[72] On 22 April 2019, Easter Monday, FC United were relegated back to the Northern Premier League following a 1–2 home defeat to Blyth Spartans.[73]  
  F.C. United's club colours are red, white and black — the same colours worn by Manchester United.[74] The shirt bears no sponsorship logo, as it was written into the club's constitution that the club should not have a shirt sponsor.[75] The club's first kit was a plain red shirt, white shorts and plain black socks.[76] The club introduced a new home shirt for the 2007–08 season with a striped collar and striped ends on the sleeves which lasted until 2009.[77] This was changed for the 2009–11 seasons to a red shirt with a black and white stripe down the left side, manufactured by Admiral Sportswear.[78] For seasons 2011–13 the club reverted to a plain red shirt, manufactured by O'Neills.[79] At the start of the 2018–19 season, Errea replaced O'Neill's as kit supplier.[80]  
  The club's second kit, worn when playing away against a team with a predominantly red kit, is a white shirt, white shorts and socks.[81] The club has an alternative plain blue kit with the clenched fist logo and the words "Our Club Our Rules" on the shirt front for playing against a team with a red and white kit.[82] In past seasons white shirts with diagonal black or red stripes[76][83] and a white shirt with a red trim, black shorts and white socks have all been used as the second kits.[84]  
  The club's badge is red, white, black and yellow, and incorporates elements from the coat of arms of Manchester City Council; a ship representing Manchester's industry and three stripes representing the three rivers that flow through Manchester: the Irk, the Irwell and the Medlock.[16]  
  F.C. United play at the 4,400 capacity[1] Broadhurst Park, which opened in May 2015.[85] The ground was built at a cost of £6.3 million, using £2 million from a Community Share Scheme and the remainder from a variety of governmental and charity grants.[86] The ground is surrounded on all sides by covered stands: the St. Mary's Road End (east), the North Stand, the Lightbowne Road End (west) and the Main Stand (south), the latter of which has seating sections.[1] Within the Main Stand is a clubhouse with a bar and catering facilities, club offices, changing rooms, a medical suite and a classroom.[87] The stadium is shared with a local junior team, Moston Juniors F.C.[88]  
  From their foundation in 2005 until 2014, F.C. United were based at Bury F.C.'s Gigg Lane stadium. F.C. United's first proposed stadium was announced in 2010 for Newton Heath, the original home of Manchester United.[89] The development was planned to be located on the site of the Ten Acres Lane sports centre and would have cost £3.5 million, to be financed by public donations, a Community Shares issue and grant funding.[90] However a year later, in March 2011, Manchester City Council backed out from funding the stadium.[91] The Broadhurst Park site in Moston, north-east Manchester, was announced in April 2011.[92] Detailed information about the new facility was released in June 2011[93] and Manchester City Council approved the planning permission for the site on 27 October 2011.[94] F.C. United had to overcome some obstacles including funding agreements, contractor and lease negotiations and a legal challenge from local residents which caused a further two-year delay before building commenced in November 2013.[95]  
  For the 2014–15 season, F.C. United ended their groundsharing agreement with Bury after nine seasons in preparation for their move to Broadhurst Park. As the ground was not ready at the start of the season, they used Bower Fold as a temporary home. Delays with Broadhurst Park meant that F.C. United were unable to move in until May 2015, and following fixture clashes with Stalybridge Celtic the club moved in December 2014 to the Tameside Stadium for the remainder of the season.[103][104] F.C. United hosted a test event at Broadhurst Park on 16 May 2015, staging a short match between their first team and an Invitational XI made up of past players.[85] The official opening game was a friendly against Benfica B on 29 May,[105] the anniversary of Manchester United's victory over Benfica in the 1968 European Cup Final. Benfica won the opening game 1–0 in front of a crowd of 4,232.[106][107]  
  F.C. United are owned by around 2300 of their members and are the third [108] supporter-owned football club in the United Kingdom by number of members.[5] Each member can vote on how the club is run, including voting for board members, kit designs and season ticket prices.[11] F.C. United fans are known for the large range of songs that they sing at matches, and the atmosphere created by fans has been praised in the media.[109][110][111][112]  
  During their first season (2005–06), F.C. United had the second-highest average attendance in English non-League football with an average gate of 3,059 and were the 87th best supported club across all divisions.[113] Attendances fell in the next two seasons and they were the 92nd best supported club in 2006–07 and 100th best supported club by 2007–08.[114][115] Their average league attendance then levelled out at approximately 2,000 per game,[116] before rising to an average of 2,155 in 2014–15, the then-seventh highest attendance in non-League football.[117] After moving to Broadhurst Park in May 2015, the club averaged a gate of 3,394 in 2015–16, a season-on-season increase of over 57% and the fourth highest attendance in non-League football.[118]  
  F.C. United operate as a community benefit society.[6] Membership is obtained by paying an annual fee of £15 to the club (£3 for children) but each member receives only one share in the club and is entitled to a single vote at meetings, regardless of the amount donated.[119][120] The board consists of up to 11 members who are elected by the members of the club.[20] Day-to-day operations of the club are overseen by a Chief Executive Officer; Andy Walsh, a founding member of F.C. United, was appointed to the position in 2005.[5] He stepped down from the role at the end of June 2016.[121] Damian Chadwick, another founding member of the club, took up the position in November 2016. Chadwick stood down in 2018 and was replaced by Paul Smith.[122]  
  The club's manifesto includes the following core principles:[119]  
  The Board will be democratically elected by its members;  
  Decisions taken by the membership will be decided on a one-member, one vote basis;  
  The club will develop strong links with the local community and strive to be accessible to all, discriminating against none;  
  The club will endeavour to make admission prices as affordable as possible, to as wide a constituency as possible;  
  The club will encourage young, local participation—playing and supporting—whenever possible;  
  The Board will strive wherever possible to avoid outright commercialism;  
  The club will remain a non-profit organisation.  
  The club accepts sponsorship but does not allow sponsors' logos to be displayed on the team's shirts.[75] The club's main sponsor in its inaugural 2005–06 season was the Bhopal Medical Appeal and in the 2006–07 season it was the Williams BMW Group.[123][124] Between 2011–2016, F.C. United were sponsored by mxData, a Manchester-based mobile app development company.[75][125] In October 2014, F.C. United became the first football club in the United Kingdom to be accredited as a living wage employer by the Living Wage Foundation.[126]  
  F.C. United and their founders have been criticised and supported by fans of Manchester United and the media; some fans view those who chose to leave to follow F.C. United as "traitors".[127][128] Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson questioned the loyalty of fans who decided to form the club and the motivation behind the forming of F.C. United in a 2006 book:[129]  
  I'm sorry about that. It is a bit sad, that part, but I wonder just how big a United supporter they are. They seem to me to be promoting or projecting themselves a wee bit rather than saying, "at the end of the day the club have made a decision, we'll stick by them." It's more about them than us.  
  — Sir Alex Ferguson, The Official Manchester United Diary of the Season (2006)  
  Former Manchester United forward Eric Cantona has supported the club, describing them as "having a great idea" and expressing hope that F.C. United will "become a great club and win the European Cup in 50 years' time".[130] In 2010, aged 43, he said that he would be prepared to play for the club.[131] Steve Coppell, Manchester United winger between 1975 and 1983, joined the club as a co-owner in April 2016.[132]  
  F.C. United have been criticised by their own members for abandoning their principles, including agreeing to a photo op with a Conservative Party government minister in October 2015, despite a club policy not to be used for political promotion, and a day after some club members took part in a march against government cuts in Manchester.[133][134] F.C. United defended the visit as "an essential part" of the development of financial vehicles for football fans, arguing that it will help government representatives to better understand the benefits and challenges of social investment.[135]  
  The club's programme editor resigned from his position in June 2015 over a one-off price rise of the programme for Broadhurst Park's opening game against Benfica the previous month; a Board decision that was described as breaching the club's founding principle of avoiding outright commercialism.[133][134] F.C. United were also criticised at the time for a deficit in democracy, transparency and accountability between their officials and the membership.[133][134]  
  In 2016, protests by supporters led to several board members stepping down and an Emergency General Meeting (EGM) to elect a new board was subsequently called. The protests culminated in several fans invading the pitch during the last home game of the 2015–16 season, calling for the remaining board members deemed responsible for the lack of democracy and transparency at the club to resign.[136] Three board members resigned within a week of the on-pitch protest,[137] along with the club's Press and Communications Officer.[138] On 5 June, the EGM took place and a new board of 11 members were elected, leading to "a sense of progression and an air of optimism" among the club's members.[136]  
  The record for the most appearances for F.C. United is held by Jerome Wright, with 400 as of March 2018[update].[45] Tom Greaves is the club's all-time record goal-scorer with 102 goals in all competitions, which includes 86 in the league and 16 in cup matches as of January 2018[update].[139] Six other players, Rory Patterson, Mike Norton, Matthew Wolfenden, Jerome Wright, Simon Carden and Stuart Rudd have also scored more than 50 goals for the club.[45] Rudd holds the record for most goals scored in a single season, having scored 45 goals in the 2006–07 season.[140]  
  The largest number of points the team accrued is 112 in the 2006–07 season, and the highest number of goals scored in a season is 157, achieved in 42 matches in 2006–07.[141] The club's best performance in the FA Cup was a second round appearance during the 2010–11 season. After a 3–2 first round win over Rochdale, F.C. United recorded a 1–1 away draw with Brighton & Hove Albion, forcing a home replay which they lost 0–4.[44] The team has since advanced to the first round of the FA Cup twice, losing 1–4 in 2015–16 to Chesterfield[62] and 1–5 in 2020–21 to Doncaster Rovers.  
  In the 2006–07 season, F.C. United reached the third round of the FA Vase, beating Padiham and Salford City in the first two rounds but lost 2–3 at home to Quorn after extra time.[34] In the 2014–15 season, they progressed to the fourth round of the FA Trophy, defeating Harrogate Town, Chorley and AFC Fylde in the first three rounds before losing 0–1 away to Torquay United.[142]  
  The club's record league victory was a 10–2 win over Castleton Gabriels on 10 December 2005 in the North West Counties Football League Division Two; Simon Carden scored five of the goals, which is the club record for the highest number of goals scored by a player in a single game.[140] F.C. United achieved eight-goal victory margins on three further occasions, in 8–0 wins over Squires Gate, Glossop North End and Nelson, all during the 2006–07 season.[45] The club's heaviest league defeat is 0–6 away to Harrogate Town on 10 March 2018 in the National League North.[45]  
  F.C. United's highest home attendances are 6,731 against Brighton in the second round of the 2010–11 FA Cup on 8 December 2010 and 6,023 against Great Harwood Town in the North West Counties Football League Division Two on 22 April 2006, both at Gigg Lane.[45]  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Upon its formation, F.C. United appointed Karl Marginson as its manager. He led the team to four promotions, three league titles, two league cups and a county cup. He left the club by mutual consent in October 2017 after a poor start to the 2017–18 season. He was replaced by forward Tom Greaves who took on the role of a caretaker player-manager, a decision that was made permanent on 21 November 2017.[2][148][67] He was subsequently replaced by Dave Chadwick as Caretaker Manager in August 2018 when he resigned.[3] Neil Reynolds is the current manager of the club having been in position since 18 October 2018, taking over from Chadwick.  
  Information correct after match played on 12 March 2022.[149] Only competitive matches are counted.  
  Key  
  Names of caretaker managers are supplied where known, and the names of caretaker managers are highlighted in italics and marked with an asterisk (*).  
  Names of player-managers are supplied where known, and are marked with a double-dagger (‡).  
  F.C. United have won three league titles, two league cups and two county cups in their history.[155]  
  F.C. United's women's team competed for the first time in the 2012–13 season. They finished second in the Greater Manchester Women's Football League behind Manchester City Ladies.[157] They also reached the GMWFL League Cup final but lost 0–1 to Manchester City Ladies.[157] After finishing runners-up again in 2013–14,[158] the team won a league and cup double in 2015, gaining promotion to the North West Women's Regional Football League Division One South.[159] They finished runners-up in the two following seasons, behind MSB Woolton Ladies in 2015–16 and Merseyrail Bootle in 2016–17, winning a league and county cup in the latter season.[160][161][162] In 2017–18, the team won their first Treble, defending the league and county cups and securing a promotion to the North West Women's Regional Football League Premier Division after an unbeaten league campaign.[163][164][165] After two seasons that were curtailed by the COVID-19 pandemic with no promotion or relegation,[166] F.C. United were among various women's teams that gained promotion through an application process. As a result, the team reached the 4th division for the first time in their history.[167]  
  F.C. United of Manchester Women's league and cup history  
  ^ The 2019–20 season was cancelled partway through due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the FA ruled that league results would be expunged for Tiers 3 to 7.  
  ^ Due to the season's results being expunged, there were no goals officially recorded  
  ^ The 2020–21 season was ruled as incomplete, with the club gaining promotion though the FA's application process.  
  ^ Matt Rickard (5 July 2005). "United We Stand". ESPN. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 12 July 2005.  
  ^ a b Robert Brady (2006). An Undividable Glow – The story of FCUM's first season. Manchester: Rubberybubberyboy Parchment. pp. 37, 39, 43, 51, 68. ISBN 978-0-9553620-0-2.  
  ^ "Steering Group Announcement". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 3 June 2005. Archived from the original on 15 March 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ a b Howard, Tony (5 October 2005). "The rise and rise of F.C. United". The Guardian. Guardian News and Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2011.  
  ^ Stuart Brennan (22 June 2005). "Karl the man for Red rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 1 June 2016.  
  ^ "F.C. United Player Trials". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 21 June 2005. Archived from the original on 26 February 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ "F.C. United Trials a Success". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 28 June 2005. Archived from the original on 4 March 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ Brennan Stuart (6 July 2005). "Mitten's family affair". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 8 July 2005.  
  ^ Stuart Brennan (22 July 2005). "The Direct route for FC United". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ a b c "F.C. United history". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 23 January 2021. Retrieved 10 August 2022.  
  ^ Tony Howard (22 September 2006). "To the next step". The Guardian. Guardian News and Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 3 October 2011.  
  ^ Tony Glennon (19 August 2005). "Rebels on new ground". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 19 May 2016.  
  ^ Tony Glennon (22 August 2005). "Rory's double is no mystery". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 19 May 2016. Retrieved 19 May 2016.  
  ^ a b "FCUM out of FA Vase". BBC News. 13 December 2006. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2010.  
  ^ Robson, James (18 April 2008). "Cup win is part one of double for Rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Brennan, Stuart (26 November 2008). "F.C. United 1 Boston United 3". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2010.  
  ^ Partington, Richard (28 April 2011). "Final push by FC's nomads". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 26 March 2016. Retrieved 31 May 2016.  
  ^ Partington, Richard (5 May 2011). "We'll be back". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Ostick, Chris (12 December 2011). "Droylsden backed to keep shocking giants". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Vermiglio, Jamie (30 April 2012). "Red Rebels shatter Chorley's dreams". The Lancashire Evening Post. Johnston Publishing. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 7 May 2012.  
  ^ "Heartbreak for Rebels". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. 13 May 2013. Archived from the original on 31 May 2016. Retrieved 31 May 2016.  
  ^ Collins, Ben (29 April 2014). "Rebel Reds are finally aiming to be up for it". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 51 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Collins, Ben (30 April 2014). "Late strikes fire Ashton into final". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 53 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Ben Collins (28 January 2015). "Rebels ready to host Benfica at new home". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. p. 49 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Amy Glendinning (16 September 2010). "FC United reveal stadium plans". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 23 December 2014. Retrieved 1 June 2016.  
  ^ Clark, Wayne (25 February 2006). "F.C. United 4–1 Holker Old Boys". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 30 August 2011.  
  ^ Fullen, Victoria (5 September 2010). "F.C. United 1–5 Matlock Town". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 30 August 2011.  
  ^ "Rebels' first game at their new home". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. 20 December 2014. p. 44 – via Newsbank.  
  ^ Simon Donohue (5 December 2006). "F.C. United hires ad agency". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 17 April 2016. Retrieved 19 September 2011.  
  ^ Brennan, Stuart (5 September 2006). "Fergie lays into F.C. United". Manchester Evening News. M.E.N. Media. Archived from the original on 15 April 2016. Retrieved 27 August 2011.  
  ^ a b "Records and trophies". F.C. United of Manchester in Russia. Archived from the original on 3 April 2016. Retrieved 11 May 2016.  
  ^ a b "First Team Squad". F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 4 December 2020. Retrieved 19 August 2021.  
  ^ "Karl Marginson". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ a b "Tom Greaves". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "David Chadwick". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "Neil Reynolds". Soccerbase. Centurycomm. Retrieved 3 November 2021.  
  ^ "Reserve Squad". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. 13 November 2015. Archived from the original on 11 March 2016. Retrieved 13 November 2015.  
  ^ "F.C. United honours". fc-utd.co.uk. F.C. United of Manchester. Archived from the original on 8 April 2016. Retrieved 24 April 2011.  
  FC United of Manchester FC United of Manchester FC United of Manchester  
  We are delighted to announce a second race night of the season, which will take place following our game against Bamber Bridge on Saturday 13th April in the main bar. The night will begin at 7pm with all proceeds going to the club!  
  KitAid are to hold a kit collection event ahead of FC United's home league fixture against Bamber Bridge at Broadhurst Park on Saturday 13th April 2024.The charity collects in pre-owned football kit and then re-distributes it to under-privileged children and young adults in many of the world's poorest countries.  
  On Monday 1st April our Men’s Team welcome Ashton United to Broadhurst Park. On the back of our bumper crowd for the recent Community Day, we’re looking to keep up the momentum for our final 3 home games of the season. 3pm kick-off.  
  On Sunday 31st March our Women’s Team welcome Middlesbrough Women to Broadhurst Park. As the game falls on Easter Sunday, there will be a Juniors Easter party in the main bar before the game.  
  The 2024 General Meeting of FC United of Manchester will take place on Thursday 23 May 2024, at Broadhurst Park, 310 Lightbowne Road, Moston, Manchester M40 0FJ at 7:00pm.  
  Firstly, apologies for the delay in this month’s update. We’ve been waiting on various things and this piece has been written and rewritten numerous times! But we finally got there in the end, so here’s February’s update…  
  FREE TO ATTEND: For forward thinking businesses, the event will have a futuristic feel to it, and one not to be missed. With guest speakers Paul Haworth (FC United) and Mark Armstrong (inTEC Business).  
  We’re delighted to announce that season tickets for the men's team's 2024/25 season are now on sale. Buy yours today to enter our monthly prize draws and support the biggest fully fan-owned club in the country as we celebrate our 20th season!  
  We are giving FC United supporters the opportunity to own a match-worn men's team player shirt from the 23/24 season. Red home shirts, white and yellow away shirts and a one goalie shirt are all up for grabs.  
  Golden goal: Wayne Rooney for Manchester United v Fenerbahce (2004)  
  The teenage signing from Everton captured the imagination at Old Trafford with a storybook debut hat-trick  
  For all the adulation modern footballers receive, most will never comprehend the impact they have on young people. Sure, you get 21st-century icons such as Jack Grealish or James Maddison, who cut through all that silly public scrutiny on their hair or fashion choices and manage to connect with young supporters, but the vast majority can never truly know what they mean to fans.  
  I’ve worked in football journalism for almost a decade and met a fair few figures who could be deemed idols. Going to a José Mourinho press conference as a student on work experience was surreal. Making my first visit to the Old Trafford press box felt like a landmark as a boyhood Manchester United fan, as was shaking hands with Ole Gunnar Solskjær after covering a United pre-season friendly in Norway.  
  I’ve never met Wayne Rooney, though, and sometimes I wonder whether it’s better to keep it that way. Never meet your heroes and all that. If I did meet him, however, I’d ask him about 28 September 2004 and Manchester United 6-2 Fenerbahce.  
  Football had cast itself as the nucleus of my existence by that point, my affections fully occupied for life. This article could easily be centred on Solskjær’s stoppage-time strike against Bayern Munich in May 1999, for obvious reasons. But then I was only five, watching on from a distance on a small TV in Devon while on a family holiday.  
  Six years later, I went to Manchester United 6-2 Fenerbahce and I soaked in every second. I’d been to Old Trafford a few times before (and have been hundreds of times since) but this visit stands out like a beacon in my memory.  
  There wasn’t much talk about Rooney making his debut in the buildup. Yes, he’d just completed a mega money move to United from Everton, Sir Alex Ferguson (and all us fans) convinced the club had just landed their next superstar. But he wasn’t supposed to start. In a home group game against European lesser lights, it was expected that Ferguson would rotate and might bring Rooney on for five minutes. Not that I cared, attending with my dad – I just wanted to see United in the flesh once more. I think our previous visit had been a dire 0-0 draw with Newcastle.  
  So we wriggled our way through the hordes on Sir Matt Busby Way and into our seats in the North Stand. My dad always did this thing where he said “Welcome to Old Trafford” in the voice of a stadium announcer just as we walked up the steps to the vomitory and the ground unfurled in front of us. That sight remains just as beautiful to me today, the sweeping red stands with green grass laid out perfectly as a stage. The Theatre of Dreams was never a sardonic or tongue-in-cheek phrase to me. It was just that.  
  We discovered Ferguson had thrown Rooney into the starting lineup, with the 18-year-old boy wonder starting alongside Ryan Giggs and Ruud van Nistelrooy in a dream frontline. Cristiano Ronaldo remained an unused substitute that night. Ridiculous times.  
  It took seven minutes for the floodgates to open, Giggs with the goal that would set United on course for a routine victory. Then, on 17 minutes, the first of three dream moments for Rooney and for me. The debutant fired home a wicked left-foot effort to cap a trademark United move after Van Nistelrooy’s slide-rule pass.  
  Rooney’s second came hot on its heels and was even better: a drop of the shoulder, a feint on to the right foot and a rasping low drive into the corner. At that point, with United 3-0 up inside half an hour, this 11-year-old was sated.  
  Yet it was building to a climax. On 47 minutes Fenerbahce pulled a goal back – “to keep things interesting,” as my dad reassured me – but Rooney wasn’t to be denied. This was his throne and there were 67,000 of us there to witness the coronation.  
  It was 10 minutes into the second half and Rooney couldn’t have placed the ball in a better position for a free-kick. But bear in mind United fans had been spoiled with goals from these spots after years of David Beckham. With that history and the lure of the hat-trick there could have been a sense of pressure weighing heavy on those teenage shoulders.  
  This was a player, however, who defied such logic and so bent the perfect free-kick into the top left corner and wheeled away, having just landed in football utopia. A hat-trick on United debut in front of a packed Old Trafford. Forget Roy of the Rovers. This stuff isn’t meant to happen in reality. I wouldn’t have dared to write it in my junior school English books.  
  And here’s why the third goal is the one that meant the most. I had been standing on my seat as the whole crowd rose in expectation of the moment and jumped up and down incredulously, nearly toppling off. An older bloke in the seat next to me turned around beaming and shook my hand – as if this whole experience was a victory for youth, for hope for the Manchester United of tomorrow. I embraced my dad.  
  After the win (Van Nistelrooy and David Bellion scored after another Fenerbahce consolation) Ferguson’s post-match reaction didn’t quite chime with my own joy.  
  “He is only 18 and a young boy, don’t forget,” said the United manager. “The important thing for me as a coach is to allow the boy to develop naturally without too much public attention. I want him to be as ordinary as he can.”  
  I had – and have – the greatest respect for Ferguson and you can understand the Scot trying to downplay the hype after such a debut – but honestly such a measured response was far from my mind, drifting home after the game. In fact, it wouldn’t have mattered if Rooney had flopped at United after that. It’s just a nice piece of providence that he went on to become the club’s and England’s all-time top scorer (though Harry Kane has overtaken him with the national team).  
  The moment was everything, thousands celebrating together in shared ecstasy. You get that for every goal, of course, but this time the narrative had cast its spell on me and I was mesmerised by its brilliance.  
  Maybe that was the moment my love of football and United crystalised, rather than the 1999 Champions League final. This one was different because it was mine. I was there, I shared in witnessing history and I was old enough to take in the story, which felt significant. That it was an 18-year-old performing such magic was relevant too, Rooney being just seven years older than I was. Before him had been Beckham and Giggs and Roy Keane and they always felt like adults from another generation. Now I could chart Rooney’s career, not as a role model per se, but as a phenomenon for the millennials.  
  Rooney scored more eye-catching goals for United, of course: the thunderous volley against Newcastle, the overhead kick in the Manchester derby, the halfway-line strike at West Ham.  
  But it all started, for him and for me, with a regulation trip to Old Trafford for a Champions League group game on a warm September night. A journey had begun.  
  Historical Crests: Manchester City FC  
  Manchester City FC  
  The Sky Blues  
  Founded: 1880, Stadium: City of Manchester Stadium, Capacity: 55,017  
  Founded as St. Mark’s (West Gordon), the club was renamed Ardwick in 1887 and become a founding member of the second division in 1892, two years before they took the name Manchester City. In 1899 they were the first club in history to be promoted to the first division, then the first club in Manchester to win a major trophy: the 1904 FA Cup. It had its first major period of success in the late 1960s, winning the League, FA Cup and League Cup. In 1970 the club won the Uefa Cup Winners’ Cup. In the 1980s the club went through a period of decline, which eventually saw them relegated as far down as third tier of English football by the end of the 1997-98 season. They promoted again to the top tier in 2001-2002 and have remained a fixture in the Premier League since 2002-03. In 2008, history took a fresh turn when City were bought by investors from Abu Dhabi for £210 million, making the club one of the wealthiest in the world, with buying power to sign major players. After decades of waiting Manchester City become league champions in 2012, 2014. 2018 and 2019. Manchester City’s biggest rivalry is with neighbors Manchester United against whom they contest the Manchester derby. Man City also has a very notable rivalry with Liverpool FC. City have previously worn three other badges on their shirts, prior to their current badge which was implemented in 2016. The first, introduced in 1970, was based on designs which had been used on official club documentation since the mid-1960s. It consisted of a circular badge which used the same shield as the current badge, inside a circle bearing the name of the club. In 1972, this was replaced by a variation which replaced the lower half of the shield with the red rose of Lancashire. A new club badge was adopted in 1997, as a result of the previous badge being ineligible for registration as a trademark. This badge was based on the arms of the city of Manchester and consisted of a shield in front of a golden eagle. The eagle is an old heraldic symbol of the city of Manchester; a golden eagle was added to the city’s badge in 1958 (but has since been removed), representing the growing aviation industry. The shield features a ship on its upper half representing the Manchester Ship Canal and three diagonal stripes in the lower half symbolise the city’s three rivers – the Irwell, the Irk and the Medlock. The bottom of the badge bears the motto “Superbia in Proelio“, which translates as “Pride in Battle” in Latin. Above the eagle and shield are three stars, which are purely decorative. On 15 October 2015, following years of criticism from the fans over the design of the 1997 badge, the club announced they intended to carry out a fan consultation on whether to disregard the club badge and institute a new design. After the consultation, the club announced in late November 2015 the current club badge would be replaced in due course by a new version which would be designed in the style of the older, circular variants. The new design was officially unveiled end of 2015.  
  This site uses cookies so that we can offer you the best possible user experience. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognizing you when you return to our site and helping our team understand which parts of the site you find most interesting and useful.  
  Strict Necessary Cookies  
  What is a cookie? We make use of cookies on this website. A cookie is a simple small file that is sent with pages from this website [and/or Flash applications] and stored by your browser on your device (computer/phone/tablet). The information stored therein can be sent back to our servers on a subsequent visit.  
  Use of permanent cookies With the help of a permanent cookie we can recognize you when you visit our website again. The website can therefore be set up specifically to your preferences. Even if you have given permission to place cookies, we can remember this by means of a cookie. This means you do not have to repeat your preferences every time, which saves you time and allows you to use our website more pleasantly. You can delete permanent cookies via the settings of your browser.  
  Use of session cookies With the help of a session cookie we can see which parts of the website you have viewed during this visit. We can therefore adapt our service as much as possible to the surfing behavior of our visitors. These cookies are automatically deleted as soon as you close your web browser.  
  Google Analytics A cookie from the American company Google is placed via our website as part of the “Analytics” service. We use this service to track and receive reports on how visitors use the website. Google may provide this information to third parties if Google is legally obliged to do so, or if third parties process the information on behalf of Google. We have no influence on this. We have allowed Google to use the obtained analytics information for other Google services.  
  The information that Google collects is anonymized as much as possible. Your IP address is expressly not provided. The information is transferred to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Standard Contractual Clauses are therefore part of Google's terms and conditions.”  
  Right to inspect and correct or delete your data You have the right to request access to and correction or deletion of your data. See our contact page for this. To prevent abuse, we may ask you to identify yourself adequately. When it concerns access to personal data linked to a cookie, you must send a copy of the cookie in question. You can find this in the settings of your browser.  
  Enabling and disabling cookies and removing them More information about enabling, disabling and deleting cookies can be found in the instructions and/or using the Help function of your browser.  
  Enable or Disable Cookies  
  If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this site you will need to enable or disable cookies again.  
  STAY INFORMED  
  Register for our email alerts and receive latest news and events  
  Email address:  
  History  
  Founded in 1878 as Newton Heath L&YR Football Club, our club has operated for over 140 years. The team first entered the English First Division, then the highest league in English football, for the start of the 1892-93 season. Our club name changed to Manchester United Football Club in 1902, and we won the first of our 20 English League titles in 1908. In 1910, we moved to Old Trafford, our current stadium.  
  Late 1940s  
  In the late 1940s, we returned to on-field success, winning the FA Cup in 1948 and finishing within the top four league positions during each of the first five seasons immediately following the Second World War. During the 1950s, we continued our on-field success under the leadership of manager Sir Matt Busby, who built a popular and famous team based on youth players known as the "Busby Babes."  
  1958  
  In February 1958, an airplane crash resulted in the death of eight of our first team players. Global support and tributes followed this disaster as Busby galvanized the team around such popular players as George Best, Bobby Charlton and Denis Law. Rebuilding of the club culminated with a victory in the 1968 European Cup final, becoming the first English club to win this title.  
  1986  
  In 1986, our club appointed Sir Alex Ferguson as manager. In 1990, we won the FA Cup and began a period of success that has continued until the present day. Since 1992, we have won the Premier League 13 times. In total, we have won a record 20 English League titles, a record 12 FA Cups, 4 League Cups, 3 European Champions Cups and 1 FIFA Club World Cup, making us one of the most successful clubs in England.  
  2012/13  
  At the end of the 2012/13 season, Sir Alex Ferguson retired as team manager. Sir Alex remains a key member of the club as he is a director of Manchester United FC. David Moyes was our manager during the 2013/14 season and departed the club in April 2014. Following this departure, Ryan Giggs assumed responsibility for the first team as interim manager.  
  2014  
  On 19 May 2014, we announced Louis van Gaal as the new team manager of Manchester United under a three-year contract. Louis van Gaal has managed at the top level of European football for over 20 years, and, in that time, he has won domestic titles and domestic cups in three countries, as well as the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Cup, an Intercontinental Cup, two UEFA Super Cups and domestic Super Cups in Holland and Germany. Louis van Gaal took his new post in July 2014 after the FIFA World Cup, where he managed the Dutch national team into third place position.  
  2016  
  On 27 May 2016, we announced Jose Mourinho as the new team manager of Manchester United on a three-year contract. Mourinho has managed at the top level of European football since 2000 and, in that time, he has won 25 trophies in four countries including two Champions League titles, three Premier League titles, two Serie A titles, one Europa League title, one La Liga title and two Portuguese league titles. Between 2003 and 2012, he did not go a single calendar year without winning at least one trophy and in his first season at Manchester United, won three trophies. Individual accolades include 3 Premier League Manager of the Year awards, FIFA World Coach of the Year, 2 Serie A Manager of the Year awards and two UEFA Manager of the Year awards.  
  OLD TRAFFORD THEATRE OF DREAMS  
  Our Old Trafford stadium, commonly known as "The Theatre of Dreams," was originally opened on February 19, 1910 with a capacity of approximately 80,000. During the Second World War, Old Trafford was used by the military as a depot, and on March 11, 1941 was heavily damaged by a German bombing raid. The stadium was rebuilt following the war and reopened on August 24, 1949. The addition of floodlighting, permitting evening matches, was completed in 1957 and a project to cover the stands with roofs was completed in 1959. After a series of additions during the 1960s, 1970s and early 1980s, capacity at Old Trafford reached 56,385 in 1985. The conversion of the stadium to an all-seater reduced capacity to approximately 44,000 by 1992, the lowest in its history. Thereafter, we began to expand capacity throughout the stadium, bringing capacity to approximately 58,000 by 1996, approximately 68,000 by 2000, and approximately 76,000 in 2006. Current capacity at Old Trafford is 75,454.  
  1910  
  Since the inception of the Premier League in 1992, our club has enjoyed consistent success and growth with popular players such as Eric Cantona, David Beckham, Ryan Giggs, Paul Scholes, Roy Keane, Bryan Robson, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney and Robin van Persie. The popularity of these players, our distinguished tradition and history, and the on-field success of our first team have allowed us to expand the club into a global brand with an international follower base.  
  0 results are available, use up and down arrow keys to navigate  
  History by Decade  
  Manchester United: The story so far  
  Immerse yourself in the greatest football story ever told with our decade-by-decade guide to United's rich history...  
  1878 to 1909  
  Manchester United Football Club was first formed in 1878, albeit under a different name - Newton Heath LYR (Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway).  
  Little suspecting the impact they were about to have on the national, even global game, the workers in the railway yard at Newton Heath indulged their passion for association football with games against other departments of the LYR and other railway companies.  
  Indeed, when the Football League was formed in 1888, Newton Heath did not consider themselves good enough to become founder members alongside the likes of Blackburn Rovers and Preston North End. Instead, they waited until 1892 to make their entrance, joining the league at Division One level but were sadly relegated to Division Two after just two seasons in the top flight.  
  Financial problems plagued the club and, by the start of the 20th Century, it seemed they were destined for extinction. The team was saved, however, by local brewery owner John Henry Davies. Legend has it that he learned of the club's plight when he found a dog belonging to captain Harry Stafford.  
  Davies decided to invest in Newton Heath, in return for some interest in running it. This led to a change of name and, after several alternatives including Manchester Central and Manchester Celtic were rejected, Manchester United was born in April/May of 1902.  
  The next influential figure to arrive at United was Ernest Mangnall, who was appointed secretary in September 1903 but is widely acknowledged as being the club's first manager. His side, including new signings like goalkeeper Harry Moger and forward Charlie Sagar, finished third in the Second Division in 1903/04 and again in 1904/05.  
  The following season, 1905/06, was to prove one of the greatest in the early life of Manchester United. The half-back line of Dick Duckworth, Alex Bell and captain Charlie Roberts were instrumental in the side which reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup but, more importantly, finished as runners-up in the Second Division. Some 12 years after being relegated, United reclaimed their place in the top flight. To celebrate, Mangnall signed Billy Meredith from rivals Manchester City. Nicknamed the Welsh Wizard, Meredith had been implicated in a bribery scandal at City, and was due to be auctioned along with 17 other players. Mangnall shrewdly made his move early, and acquired Meredith's signature before the bidding began.  
  The winger's arrival proved to be inspirational - Meredith set up countless goals for Sandy Turnbull in 1907/08 when United won the Football League title for the first time. As champions, United played in the first-ever Charity Shield in 1908. They duly won the trophy, beating Southern League champions QPR 4-0 thanks largely to a hat-trick from Sandy's namesake, Jimmy Turnbull. The third trophy to be added to the club's honours board was the FA Cup, at the end of a tremendous run in 1909. United beat Bristol City 1-0 in the final, thanks to Sandy Turnbull's winner.  
  1910 to 1919  
  The words Old Trafford entered footballing folklore for the first time during the 1909/10 season. The land on which the stadium was built was bought by the Manchester Brewery Company (through John Henry Davies) and leased to the club.  
  Davies himself paid for the building work, which commenced in 1908 under the supervision of architect Archibald Leitch. By 1910, the club had moved lock, stock and barrel from their old home of Bank Street. United's opening fixture at Old Trafford was played on 19 February 1910. The new hosts lost 4-3 to their first visitors Liverpool, but the stadium was successful in accommodating an 80,000 capacity crowd. Two days previously, the old wooden stand at Bank Street had been blown down by strong winds - further evidence, perhaps, that United were suited to and needed their new home.  
  Indeed, United were crowned League champions for the second time at the end of their first full season at Old Trafford - 1910/1911. The Reds clinched the title at home on the final day of the season, beating Sunderland 5-1 with Harold Halse grabbing two of the goals. Halse also scored six goals as United beat Swindon Town 8-4 to clinch the Charity Shield.  
  Despite such feats, United could not maintain the winning run and, in 1911/12, the defending champions finished in a disappointing 13th place. Secretary-manager Ernest Mangnall bore the brunt of the criticism, and resigned to join United's neighbours and rivals Manchester City. The search for Mangnall's successor finished at the door of JJ Bentley, the president of the Football League. Under his guidance, the Reds claimed fourth place in the League at the end of the 1912/13 season.  
  The 1913/14 term was a period of transition, while the following campaign was notable for a change of management - in December 1914, the roles of secretary and team manager were separated for the first time. Bentley became full-time secretary and John Robson was appointed to look after and select the team. Robson's team was a shadow of the one which had performed so well in the previous decade, as only George Stacey, Billy Meredith, Sandy Turnbull and George Wall remained from the 1909 FA Cup-winning side. Not surprisingly, the club struggled, only escaping relegation by a single point.  
  Before United could form a plan for recovery, the outbreak of the First World War put football firmly to the back of people's minds. The Football League was suspended, and clubs resorted to playing in regional competitions. United played in the Lancashire Prinicipal and Subsidiary Tournaments for four seasons, but this was a less than successful diversion, the misery compounded by the fact that two of the club's players were found guilty of match fixing. Enoch West was banned for life, as was Sandy Turnbull, who joined the Footballers' Battalion to help Britain's war effort. Tragically, Turnbull was killed during battle in France in May 1917, and another link to the club’s earliest glory years lost  
  1920 to 1929  
  Manchester United returned to League football on 30 August 1919, following a four-year gap caused by the First World War. The team for that first match back against Derby County included many new faces - in fact only two of the men on duty had played in United's previous league game at the end of the 1914/15 season.  
  Billy Meredith was still at Old Trafford, but reaching the end of his illustrious Old Trafford career. He made only 19 appearances in 1919/20 when United finished 12th in the First Division. The new hero of the terraces, Joe Spence, finished the season as the team's top scorer with 14 League goals. He was joint-top scorer again in 1920/21, but this time with half the tally as United again under-achieved to finish in 13th place.  
  Manager John Robson then left the club, to be replaced by John Chapman, who reverted to the dual role of secretary/manager last held by JJ Bentley. Meanwhile, former manager Ernest Mangnall continued to make the local headlines with City, as they moved into a new stadium at Maine Road.  
  Mangnall also re-signed Meredith for City and despite his advancing years, it was perhaps no coincidence that United were relegated in their first season without him, winning only eight of their 42 matches in 1921/22. Chapman's team managed to climb out of the Second Division at the third attempt, when the on-field leadership of Frank Barson helped ensure promotion at the end of 1924/25. United finished second to Leicester City, after losing only eight games.  
  United's top-flight status was cemented with a ninth-place finish in 1925/26. Chapman's team also went on a great run in the FA Cup, but this came to a halt in the semi-finals when Manchester City beat them 3-0 at Bramall Lane in Sheffield. City's luck then ran out, as they lost both the final (to Bolton) and their place in the First Division.  
  Not that United supporters could afford to chuckle at City's misfortune. Two months into the 1926/27 season, they had troubles of their own when the FA suspended manager Chapman with immediate effect, the reasons for which never became public. Wing-half Clarence Hilditch took over as player-manager while the club looked for a more permanent replacement, but 'Lal' was reluctant to pick himself, and the team suffered. Chapman's permanent successor, Herbert Bamlett, arrived later that season. He was already known to United fans as the referee who called off the club's FA Cup quarter-final tie at Burnley in 1909, when their team was trailing 1-0 in the midst of a blizzard. Bamlett, though, was too cold to blow the final whistle, so Charlie Roberts had to do the job and United went on to win the Cup that season!  
  Sadly, Bamlett had no further impact on United's success as their manager. The team slowly slipped down the First Division, finishing 15th in 1926/27 and 18th in 1927/28, only to recover slightly to end in 12th in 1928/29. Spence continued to score goals by the bucketload but not even he could stop United's steady decline...  
  1930 to 1939  
  The decline that had started in the 1920s continued at the outset of the 1930s as United finished 17th in 1929/30, to fill the fans with dread.  
  Their fears were realised in the next season, when United made the worst start in their history by losing their first 12 league matches in a row. The dozen defeats included back-to-back thrashings at Old Trafford, 6-0 by Huddersfield Town and then 7-4 by Newcastle United. The Reds eventually lost 27 out of 42 league matches in 1930/31, conceding 115 goals. Relegation led to manager Herbert Bamlett bowing out, and secretary Walter Crickmer taking charge of team affairs. The patience of the supporters was being severely tested, and many of them did not hang around - only 3,507 turned up for the opening match of the following season. As the season went on, the situation deteriorated. By December, there was no money to pay the players' wages. Bankruptcy was a real threat.  
  The club's saviour came in the shape of James Gibson, a manufacturer of army uniforms. He invested £30,000, paid the players and got things back on track. He appointed a new manager, Scott Duncan, who was given money to spend. However, he did not make the most of it. A dreadful run under Duncan in 1933/34 took United to the brink of being relegated into the Third Division for the first time in the club’s history. Survival was only secured on the last day of the season, when a 2-0 win, with goals from Tom Manley and Jack Cape, sent opponents Millwall down instead. In that same week, Manchester City won the FA Cup, with a man named Matt Busby in their side.  
  United finished the 1934/35 season in fifth place and, then in the following term, claimed their first silverware of the decade. Unbeaten during the last 19 games of the campaign, the Reds secured the Second Division championship with a 3-2 win over Bury at Gigg Lane. The end-of-season form in the Second Division suggested United would do well on returning to the top flight but, by Christmas, the side had only won four matches, including one on 25 December itself! Only 10 wins in the whole season led to relegation, with City's fortunes again proving in stark contrast as they were crowned League champions. The relegated United team included Walter Winterbottom, who would later be knighted after managing England for 16 years.  
  The yo-yoing continued as United were promoted again the next season, 1937/38, as runners-up to Aston Villa. Manager Duncan could only claim some of the credit, as he left the club in November 1937 to take charge of Ipswich Town. Walter Crickmer again stepped into the breach as United's caretaker manager. The highlight of Duncan and Crickmer's season was the discovery of Johnny Carey, who would later be recognised as one of the greatest full-backs in football history. Playing 32 games and scoring six goals in a more advanced role, the Irishman helped United to stay up this time, finishing 14th, while City took their turn to be relegated. There was no time to gloat, however - the outbreak of war put the Football League on hold again, for several years.  
  1940 to 1949  
  The outbreak of the Second World War forced football to the very back of people's minds between 1939 and 1946. But even in the absence of League football, Old Trafford was still the focus of attention.  
  On 11 March 1941, the stadium was bombed during a German air raid. The attack destroyed the main stand, dressing rooms and offices. It was a devastating blow but, within a few years, there would be optimism again around the famous old ground.  
  It came with a man named Matt Busby, who would prove to be a hugely important figure in the history of Manchester United. A former Manchester City and Liverpool player, Busby served in the Ninth Battalion of the King's Liverpool Regiment, where his leadership qualities shone through. These qualities did not go unnoticed by United.  
  Busby joined the Reds in 1945, initially on a five-year contract. Little did he know he would still be managing the club 25 years later! The young boss did not waste any time making his mark, altering the positions of several key players. He also founded the 'Famous Five' forwards when he brought together Jimmy Delaney, Stan Pearson, Jack Rowley, Charlie Mitten and Johnny Morris.  
  Perhaps the most important signing Busby made, however, was on the coaching staff. Matt had metJimmy Murphy during the war, and identified him as his perfect right-hand man. The pair formed a partnership that would see United become a power in world football.  
  Busby and Murphy's first step on the road to glory was to build a team that was capable of challenging for domestic honours. They succeeded almost at the first attempt, as United finished second to Liverpool in the first Football League campaign after the war, 1946/47. It was the club's highest placing for 36 years, and there was extra cause for optimism when the Reserves won their (Central) League Championship in the same season.  
  Busby's mix of young local lads and established players lifted their first trophy the following year, when beating the Blackpool side of Stanley Matthews, Stan Mortensen and Harry Johnston in the 1948 FA Cup final. It was 39 years to the day that United had previously won the Cup, in 1909.  
  The FA Cup was also the club's first major honour since winning the League Championship in 1911, and recapturing the title would now become the number one target for Busby's men. During the first five seasons of his post-war reign, United finished second on four occasions, and fourth on the other (1949/50).  
  The thrill of the chase for honours brought the fans flooding back – more than one million of them passed through the turnstiles in the 1947/48 season, dragging the club out of debt. Surely these fans wouldn't have to wait long to be rewarded with the prize they all craved…  
  1950 to 1959  
  The 1950s dawned with the break-up of Matt Busby’s first successful United side - the 1948 FA Cup-winning team.  
  Dressing room dissent led to Johnny Morris departing for Derby and Charlie Mitten exporting his wing wizardry to Colombia. Fans worried by the duo's departure were soon placated. The great Scot’s plan was to promote the youngsters he’d been recruiting and developing in the late 1940s. Jackie Blanchflower and Roger Byrne were the first to emerge and be labelled ‘Babes’ by the newspapers; in their debut season in 1951/52, United won the elusive League championship for the first time since 1911.  
  In 1955/56 and 1956/57, Byrne lifted the Division One trophy as skipper of a fabled young side that included several more products of Busby’s youth academy. Eddie Colman, Mark Jones and David Pegg were all first-team regulars, having cut their teeth in the FA Youth Cup, which United won five years in a row from its inception in 1953.  
  Not all the young talent was home-grown, however. The United manager was equally happy to plunge into the transfer market, as shown by the big money signings of proven internationals Tommy Taylor and goalkeeper Harry Gregg.  
  Another young man who excelled for club and country was Duncan Edwards. So powerful, talented and mature was the Dudley teenager that Busby could not hold him back from United’s first team. In April 1953, he became the First Division’s youngest-ever player at the age of 16 years and 185 days.  
  One match that epitomised the new Busby Babes era was against Arsenal at Highbury on 1 February 1958. In front of a crowd of 63,578 the Reds beat the Gunners in a nine-goal thriller with goals from Edwards, Taylor (2), Bobby Charlton and Dennis Viollet.  
  Sadly, what was perhaps their greatest game on English soil was destined to be the last for that particular Manchester United team. From Highbury, the Babes headed off into Europe to play the second leg of a tie against Red Star Belgrade. Again they won 5-4, this time on aggregate but, on the way home, the celebrations were cut short by tragedy.  
  After refuelling in Munich on 6 February 1958, the United aeroplane crashed, killing 22 people, including seven players – Byrne, Colman, Jones, Pegg, Taylor, Geoff Bent and Liam Whelan. Duncan Edwards died of his injuries 15 days later in a German hospital. The club, the city of Manchester and the English game entered a long period of mourning. It seemed inconceivable that United could recover from such an appalling loss.  
  But as Busby defied the medics to recover from his crash wounds, the team bounced back and, patched up by Jimmy Murphy, they reached the FA Cup final in May against all odds. The Reds lost at Wembley to Bolton Wanderers, 12 months after controversially losing the final to Aston Villa.  
  Despite the appalling devastation inflicted on United’s richly talented first-team squad, Busby and Murphy pulled together a makeshift pool of players and, remarkably, they finished second in the league in 1958/59. After the horrors of Munich, the rebuilding process had begun.  
  1960 to 1969  
  After building one of the greatest teams seen in England, Matt Busby had to start all over again at the start of the 1960s. The Munich Air Disaster had robbed him, and football, of some of the era's greatest players. But once the great manager had recovered from his own injuries, he set about forging another side to take the world by storm.  
  Dennis Viollet was one of the leading names within this team. In 1959/60, the Munich survivor broke Jack Rowley's club record by scoring 32 goals league goals in one season, a record that still stands to this day.  
  By 1962 Viollet had left the club as Busby reshaped his side once more. This next great team still retained a link to the Busby Babes in the shape of Bill Foulkes and Bobby Charlton, the latter coming through the ranks to break goalscoring records for both club and country. Nobby Stiles also rose through the ranks, while Denis Law came via a record £115,000 transfer from Torino.  
  United's form was erratic at the start of the decade, while new names settled in, but then everything came together with a run to Wembley for the 1963 FA Cup Final. Busby's new-look team beat Leicester 3-1, with two goals from David Herd and one by Law.  
  The next season saw United build on the foundations of FA Cup success to challenge for the title – finishing second, only four points behind the champions Liverpool. The 1962/63 season was also notable for the signing and debut of George Best, the young man from Belfast who would become football's first superstar. His incredible skill, pace and control left opponents in knots, making him a hit with the fans, while his film-star looks helped elevate his fame to celebrity status.  
  In 1964/65, the famous Trinity of Best, Law and Charlton took United to new heights. They won the League championship, pipping Leeds on goal difference, and reached the semi-finals of the European Fairs Cup and the FA Cup. Law plundered goals galore and was named the European Footballer of the Year.  
  The title-winning team seemed to be the finished article, but they finished a disappointing fourth the following season, and exited both the FA and European Cups in the semi-finals. The season's highlight had been the 5-1 away thrashing of Benfica in the European Cup quarter-finals, when Best had been in blistering form and earned the tag the 'El Beatle'.  
  In 1966/67, United were crowned League champions again and another season of European Cup football was guaranteed. This time, United would go all the way, beating Benfica in the final at Wembley. Jaime Graca equalised Charlton's headed goal to take the game into extra-time, but further goals from Best, Brian Kidd – on his 19th birthday – and Charlton gave United their first European Cup. Just 10 years after Sir Matt had seen his dream team destroyed, he had delivered the ultimate prize. He was knighted soon afterwards.  
  The following season saw the European champions finish 11th in the league and fail to win a trophy. The Reds also lost the World Club Championship 2-1 on aggregate to Estudiantes in a match marred by on-field violence. Despite the anti-climatic end to the decade, United had achieved incredible things in the 1960s and few could begrudge Sir Matt's retirement in 1969, after all he'd achieved.  
  1970 to 1979  
  With memories of the European Cup triumph beginning to fade, Manchester United's attentions turned to their managerial vacancy. Sir Matt Busby had led the club to the promised land but had now retired, leaving big boots to fill.  
  Their decision was to appoint from within, by promoting one of Busby's coaches and former players, Wilf McGuinness, to the senior position. A combination of ageing stars and the lack of overall control in team affairs meant that McGuinness struggled to impose his authority. Putting popular figures like Denis Law and Shay Brennan on the transfer list didn't help matters, neither did George Best's distracting off-field behaviour.  
  Wilf wasn't allowed to struggle for too long. On Boxing Day 1970, he was relieved of his duties and Sir Matt was put back in temporary charge. Frank O'Farrell was the next man to take over in June 1971 but, despite a promising start, United's 5-0 defeat by Crystal Palace on 16 December 1972 was the Irishman's last match in charge.  
  Although O'Farrell's tenure was short, he still left his mark by signing Martin Buchan for a record fee of £125,000. The former Aberdeen captain was to become a key player for O'Farrell's successor, Tommy Docherty, who was appointed around Christmas in 1972.  
  The Doc's first challenge was to keep the team in the top flight, while gradually replacing the legends of the 1960s. Bobby Charlton had announced he would retire at the end of the 1972/73 season, Best was frequently veering off the rails once again and Law had passed his peak. Law, in fact, was given a free transfer in July 1973, a move which later came back to haunt Docherty. The striker joined Manchester City and scored at Old Trafford in April 1974, on a day when United's relegation to the Second Division was confirmed.  
  To Docherty's credit, the Reds bounced back very quickly. They won the Second Division championship in style in 1974/75, with top scorer Stuart 'Pancho' Pearson contributing 17 league goals. Lou Macari scored the goal that clinched promotion, at Southampton on 5 April 1975.  
  United then reached successive FA Cup finals, losing to Southampton in 1976, but beating Liverpool 2-1 a year later. The Doc's men rose perfectly to the task of destroying Liverpool's Treble hopes – the Merseyside club won the League Championship and the European Cup on either side of United's triumph. The joy of that win didn't last very long for the Doc, however. Just 44 days later, he was sacked following off-field revelations.  
  QPR manager Dave Sexton stepped into the breach, and although he finished no higher than 10th in the table in his first two seasons 1977/78 and 1978/79, he again guided the side to Wembley in 1979. Unfortunately the Reds lost there, 3-2 to Arsenal in one of the most memorable finishes to an FA Cup final. Gordon McQueen and Sammy McIlroy scored in the last five minutes to bring United back from 2-0 down, only for Alan Sunderland to grab Arsenal's winner on the brink of extra-time.  
  Those frenetic last few moments at Wembley summed up the 1970s for United, a decade of high drama when great highs and lows were never far apart.  
  1980 to 1989  
  United made a poor start to the 1980s but Dave Sexton and his team recovered to win eight of their last ten league games in the 1979/80 campaign, finishing just two points behind Liverpool in the title race.  
  The Reds produced another blistering finish at the end of the following season, 1980/81, when they won their last seven league games in a row. This time, however, only an eighth-placed finish in the table was secured – a position which the club's board could not tolerate. Sexton was sacked on 30 April 1981, after four seasons in the hot-seat.  
  Sexton’s replacement Ron Atkinson brought in Mick Brown as assistant manager and Eric Harrison as youth coach. But it was his on-field acquisitions that really excited the fans. He broke the British transfer record to recruit Bryan Robson from his old club West Bromwich Albion for £1.5million and spent around a third of that to add another ex-Albion man, Remi Moses, to the United squad.  
  In midfield, the new arrivals wonderfully complemented the finesse of Ray Wilkins, the ball-playing England star. But still there was something missing. United needed a forward who could match the strike-rate of Ian Rush at Liverpool, with the Merseysiders winning the title again in 1982, 1983 and 1984. Atkinson’s men were never far behind, finishing third or fourth in every season of his reign. That elusive league title remained agonisingly out of reach, however.  
  The domestic cups offered United their best chances of silverware, and in 1983, Wembley was reached in both competitions. Liverpool triumphed 2-1 after extra-time to win the League Cup, while little-fancied Brighton and Hove Albion were beaten in two attempts in the FA Cup final. A 2-2 draw was followed up by a thumping 4-0 replay win for United through goals from Robson (2), Arnold Muhren and Norman Whiteside.  
  Whiteside’s habit of rising to the big occasion was never more gratefully received than in 1985, when he curled in the only goal of the FA Cup final to beat Everton 1-0. United had earlier been reduced to 10 men by the dismissal of Kevin Moran, who formed a great defensive partnership with Paul McGrath.  
  It was Atkinson’s second FA Cup success in three seasons but, 18 months later, he was sacked for his inability to break Merseyside’s monopoly of the League title. Not even 10 straight wins at the start of 1985/86 term could lead him to the Holy Grail.  
  In November 1986, United at last appointed a proven winner. At Aberdeen, Alex Ferguson had claimed every prize that Scotland had to offer, not to mention the added bonus of the European Cup Winners' Cup when his team defied the odds to beat Real Madrid in the final.  
  Ferguson clearly had the talent for the job, but he also needed time to turn United round. The club remained patient as the Reds finished eleventh in 1986/87 and again in 1988/89. After all, the season in between, 1987/88, had offered encouraging signs as United finished second to Liverpool by winning eight and drawing two of their last 10 games.  
  The promise of that season, and some of the signings made, would soon be fulfilled.  
  1990 to 1999  
  The dawn of the 1990s saw Alex Ferguson collect his first silverware as Manchester United manager, and Liverpool winning their last League title with an ageing team. The tide was turning…  
  Ferguson's first FA Cup, achieved after a replay against Crystal Palace, at the time seemed to be a stand-alone success, one that possibly saved his job after another poor season in the League. But nine years later, it seemed that Lee Martin's winning goal against Palace lit the fuse for an explosion of unprecedented success.  
  First and foremost, winning the FA Cup in 1990 allowed United to make a return to European competition after an absence of five years following the Heysel disaster. Far from being rusty, the Reds went all the way to the final of the European Cup Winners' Cup in Rotterdam where the opponents were Barcelona, the former club of United striker Mark Hughes. Two goals by Hughes sealed the match 2-1 in United's favour in May 1991, 23 years after the club's previous triumph in Europe.  
  The other long wait, for that elusive League championship, very nearly ended in 1992. The Reds had already won the manager's third trophy in March, the League Cup, and were in a two-horse race with Leeds. Liverpool were out of the running, but still had a say in the destiny of the title, beating United 2-0 at Anfield to end their arch rival's challenge.  
  The 1991/92 title would be remembered in Manchester as the title that United lost, rather than the one that Leeds actually won. Leeds, after all, were not the greatest of football powers in the 1990s and their star quality was further reduced when they allowed one of their best players to cross the Pennines in December 1992.  
  In selling Eric Cantona to Old Trafford, the Yorkshire club practically handed over the keys to the League championship. The Frenchman brought the little extra bit of magic and confidence that had been missing from United's previous campaigns and was an instant hit with the Mancunian faithful, scoring nine goals to help the Reds win their first title in 26 years.  
  In the following season, 1993/94, the team virtually picked itself en route to an historic League and FA Cup Double, with Cantona sporting the number seven shirt that had been Bryan Robson’s property for so long. The number one, meanwhile, was undoubtedly Peter Schmeichel, arguably the best goalkeeper ever seen in the English game.  
  Cantona’s eight-month absence from January 1995, following his clash with a fan at Crystal Palace, proved to be United’s undoing as they tried to defend their Double. The Reds surrendered the title by one point to Blackburn Rovers and then lost the FA Cup final by one goal to Everton. The former champions were hampered at Wembley by an injury to Steve Bruce, the brave captain who was a defensive rock in the early 1990s, and his replacement at half-time, Ryan Giggs, was also not fully fit.  
  Bruce also missed the following year's FA Cup Final, at the end of the 1995/96 season, but this time the result was rather different. Liverpool stood between United and a first-ever ‘Double Double’ and were holding out for extra-time, when Cantona struck home a sublime shot in the 86th minute. The French skipper had throughout the season been an inspiration to the talented young players in the team, including David Beckham and Gary Neville.  
  In May 1997, Cantona helped the club to its fourth League title of the decade. It was to be his last, as he surprisingly retired from football later that same month. The shock waves of Eric’s decision seemed to last for a whole year, as the Reds went empty-handed in 1997/98 while Arsenal won the Double. Again, injuries to key players, especially Giggs and Roy Keane, were cited for United’s downfall.  
  The influence that Giggs could have on results was never more apparent than in the 1999 FA Cup semi-final replay, when he scored perhaps the goal of the decade – a solo run and finish that left Arsenal's defenders grasping at thin air. It booked United's place in their fifth FA Cup final of the 1990s, and this time Ferguson's men won it, beating Newcastle United 2-0 with goals by Paul Scholes and substitute Teddy Sheringham.  
  That result clinched United's third Double, six days after the Premiership title had been wrapped up by Andy Cole's goal against Tottenham at Old Trafford. But still there was more to come from a remarkable campaign. After an epic Champions League semi-final against Juventus, when Keane inspired the team to fight back from 2-0 down in the second leg, United marched into an epic final against Bayern Munich in Barcelona.  
  United's attempts to win the European Cup for the first time since 1968 looked to be doomed when Bayern took an early lead through Mario Basler and defended it with typical German resilience. But then, in injury time, the Reds produced one of the most stunning revivals in sporting history – Sheringham equalised and, moments later, his fellow substitute Ole Gunnar Solskjaer fired in the winner to make the score 2-1. United clinched an unprecedented, historic Treble and Ferguson was subsequently knighted as fans around the globe basked in the glory.  
  The Treble became a Quadruple later in the year when Sir Alex's men travelled to Tokyo to compete for the Inter-Continental Cup. Keane's goal against Palmeiras of Brazil bestowed upon United the title of World Club Champions. Officially, at the end of the Millennium, the biggest football club in the world had also become the best in the world!  
  2000 to 2009  
  United started the new decade, century and millennium in typical pioneering fashion, entering a brand new competition – the FIFA Club World Championship in Brazil – but at the expense of participation in the FA Cup, of which the Reds were the holders.  
  The January jaunt to South America didn't result in any silverware but it gave the players valuable relaxation time in the sun. Rejuvenated by this, United raced ahead of the rivals in the title race on return to England, after they had failed to capitalise at the start of the year. Sir Alex's men achieved their sixth Premiership title early, in April, and still without a convincing replacement for Peter Schmeichel.  
  A host of goalkeepers, including Mark Bosnich, tried and failed to establish themselves during the 1999/2000 season. So it was hardly surprising when World Cup and European Championship winner Fabien Barthez joined United in July 2000.  
  The eccentric but formidable French goalkeeper helped United to win a third successive title in 2000/01, a feat that had previously been achieved by only a handful of clubs in England. Liverpool had been the last team to do it, in 1982, 1983 and 1984, but this was under the supervision of two different managers - Bob Paisley and Joe Fagan.  
  Sir Alex had been at the helm for all three of United's back-to-back titles, and was the first manager in English football to achieve the hat-trick. On the back of this latest trophy, he announced his impending retirement, only to thankfully change his mind and decide to stay.  
  Ferguson's major signing in the summer of 2002 was Rio Ferdinand, one of England's best performers at the World Cup finals in Japan and Korea. The £30m acquisition from Leeds added the steel that had arguably been missing from United's defence since the departure of Jaap Stam to Lazio.  
  Ferdinand helped the Reds to recapture the Premiership title in May 2003, a season that marked the departure of one of United’s favourite sons. David Beckham left his longtime home by signing for Real Madrid but his career as a Red ended on a high, scoring a trademark free-kick against Everton in his final game.  
  Arsenal reclaimed the League title in 2004 but the Reds won the FA Cup for an 11th time, beating Millwall 3-0 in the 2004 final at Cardiff's Millennium Stadium. A year later, United were back in Wales to face Arsenal for the trophy. Chelsea had taken the Premiership and League Cup, and it was the Gunners who triumphed on penalties despite a dominant display from United - for whom Wayne Rooney and Cristiano Ronaldo were outstanding. The following season brought maiden silverware for the pair as the Reds beat Wigan Athletic in the League Cup final.  
  For Sir Alex and his players, the main aim remained Premier League glory, which was duly snared the following season as United notched a 16th League title, finishing six points clear of reigning champions Chelsea. While the whole squad performed admirably to snatch the title back from Stamford Bridge, the man who took most of the plaudits was Ronaldo, who collected 13 personal honours during the campaign - including the PFA Player and Young Player of the Year award.  
  While it seemed improbable that the winger could top his 2006/07 heroics, he did just that the following season. Ronaldo played a major part - scoring 42 goals - as the Reds saw off the challenge of Chelsea in the two biggest competitions going. Strengthened by the summer signings of Owen Hargreaves, Carlos Tevez, Anderson and Nani, United recovered from a slow start to the season to head the table for almost the entire campaign. Despite a late charge from Chelsea, a final-day victory at Wigan (in which Ryan Giggs scored the clinching goal on the day he equalled the club's all-time appearances record) secured a 17th league title for United.  
  Ten days later, in Moscow, the Reds and Blues duked it out for silverware again as two English clubs met in the final of the Champions League or European Cup for the first time. Ronaldo's opener was cancelled out by Frank Lampard and, after 120 tense minutes, the match went to penalties. Ronaldo's miss gave John Terry the chance to take the trophy, but the Chelsea skipper slipped and smacked his effort against a post. Reprieved, United went on to win the shootout when Edwin van der Sar saved Nicolas Anelka's effort, ensuring that Europe's biggest competition had been won by the men from Manchester for a third time.  
  How do you top a season like 2007/08? Well, Sir Alex's men did their very best and only defeat at the very last hurdle - against Barcelona in the Champions League final - prevented the Reds from a historic trophy haul. Despite ultimate disappointment in Europe, United dominated almost every other competition. In December, the Reds flew to Japan to compete in the FIFA Club World Cup and a solitary Rooney goal against Ecuador's Liga de Quito in the final was enough to crown United world champions.  
  But what sort of effect would a gruelling mid-season trip to the Far East have on the Reds' domestic aspirations? As it turned out, it only made United stronger: Sir Alex's men reeled in Liverpool (seven points clear when the Reds returned from Japan) before going on to win a record-equalling 18th League title. But even before Gary Neville lifted the Barclays Premier League trophy, the Reds had tasted success against Tottenham in the League Cup. On that occasion, goalkeeper Ben Foster was the penalty shootout hero after the scores remained level after 120 minutes. The Reds ended the decade having lifted a remarkable 14 trophies.  
  2010 onwards  
  Despite a solid start to the campaign, United’s 2009/10 term contained a sting in the tail as Chelsea’s late surge for the line ended the Reds’ chances of winning a fourth successive title by a single point in a race which ran until the final day of the season.  
  There was some solace to be found in the retention of the League Cup, achieved at Aston Villa’s expense and secured by a late winner from Wayne Rooney, whose individual excellence was rewarded with both the PFA Player’s Player of the Year and Football Writers’ Player of the Year awards.  
  Despite that single piece of silverware, the 2009/10 campaign was most notable for the heightened stakes of the Manchester derby, with a club takeover inflating the ambition of Manchester City and putting them in the frame for honours. United’s local authority was exerted, however, with home and away Premier League wins and a League Cup semi-final triumph, with each victory dramatically procured in injury-time.  
  Both Manchester clubs were intent on bringing the Premier League trophy back to the North-West as the 2010/11 season began, and United’s squad was bolstered by the low-key captures of promising youngsters Javier Hernandez and Chris Smalling.  
  Though largely unknown, the duo quickly gelled with the squad and, despite a season of largely unconvincing away form, United reclaimed the title for a record 19th domestic rule. While Rooney had powered the 2009/10 campaign with his prolific form in front of goal, 2010/11 was notably more of a squad success.  
  From the goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar – in his last season at the club – through to the ageless influence of Ryan Giggs and Paul Scholes, up to a revitalised Rooney, all hands were at the pump as Chelsea were dethroned. A remarkable home record was the cornerstone of the success but, in Europe, it was miserly away form that helped propel the Reds into another Champions League final against Barcelona, this time at Wembley. For the second time in three years, Lionel Messi and co were ultimately too strong for United on the night, but it was that record 19th league title that made it another season to remember at Old Trafford.  
  The Reds celebrate after being crowned 2010/11 Premier League champions.  
  The bid to quickly usher number 20 into the record books looked strong in the early stages of 2011/12. Sir Alex Ferguson strengthened his squad with the signings of David De Gea, Phil Jones and Ashley Young, while homegrown talents Tom Cleverley and Danny Welbeck made the step up to senior regularity.  
  Despite a breathtaking start to the campaign, the Reds were rocked by a spate of injuries and a thumping home defeat to City, who had emerged as the only genuine challengers for the title. Having fought on admirably against adversity – and welcomed Scholes back in a shock retirement U-turn, United gradually reeled in Roberto Mancini’s side and, with a month of the season remaining, had built an eight-point lead.  
  However, a quickfire run of poor results allowed City to retake the lead on the home straight, and they secured their first title in 44 years in heartbreaking fashion, scoring twice in injury-time on the final day of the season to beat Queens Park Rangers and top the table on goal difference.Inevitably, Sir Alex remained defiant, congratulating the new champions while warning: “We’re disappointed about losing the eight-point lead, but I’m not going to have any recriminations for any of my players. They’re a solid bunch of lads and they’ll be fine. Don’t worry about that.”  
  Sir Alex's prophecy proved right less than 12 months later when his squad, fired by the aforementioned bitter disappointment and bolstered by the signings of Robin van Persie and Shinji Kagawa, romped to a record 20th league title. The triumph was sealed early on 22 April 2013, with top scorer van Persie appropriately netting a hat-trick in a glorious 3-0 home victory over Aston Villa.  
  The end of that 2012/13 season brought the news that millions of Reds had been dreading for a long time: Sir Alex Ferguson was to step down as manager of Manchester United. His retirement was announced on 8 May 2013 and his selection as successor was named the very next day. David Moyes arrived from Everton, tasked with following in the footsteps of British football's most successful manager.  
  It proved to be too tall an order for the Scot, despite his impressive if trophy-less track record at Goodison Park. Towards the end of a disappointing 2013/14 season, with United unable to win any of the cup competitions and lying in seventh place, it was announced that Moyes had left the club. On the same day, 22 April 2014, the Reds' longest serving and most-decorated player Ryan Giggs was placed in temporary charge until the end of the season.  
  Sir Alex Ferguson savours his 13th and final Premier League title.  
  Louis van Gaal's appointment as the permanent new manager - and the club's first boss from outside the UK and Ireland - was announced on 19 May 2014 and he started work in July after guiding his native Netherlands to the semi-finals of the World Cup in Brazil. Giggs, who had retired in May at the end of a long and glorious one-club playing career, was retained by van Gaal in the role of assistant manager.  
  By the close of his first transfer window as United manager, van Gaal had acquired six new players - club record signing Angel Di Maria for £59.7m, Radamel Falcao on loan from Monaco, Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Marcos Rojo and Luke Shaw - and had allowed many other players to leave, resulting in a much-changed squad for 2014/15.  
  With no European fixtures to play, van Gaal's debut season was a purely domestic affair. In the Barclays Premier League, the first objective was achieved as the Reds finished the campaign in the top four and therefore qualified for a return to the Champions League. Further reinforcements for van Gaal's squad came in the summer transfer window of 2015, with the most exciting of the lot arriving in the shape of Anthony Martial, the young French forward from Monaco. But perhaps the most important deal was the new one signed by first-choice keeper David De Gea, who had been pursued by Real Madrid for months prior to his move falling through at the eleventh hour on deadline day.  
  Despite a decent start to 2015/16 - United navigated a Champions League qualifying round by beating Bruges home and away and overcoming Liverpool 3-1 at Old Trafford in the league with a debut goal by Martial - it became a difficult campaign with multiple injuries disrupting van Gaal's plans. Luke Shaw's leg fracture was the most serious of these, ruling him out for the rest of the season from September. That blow occurred away to PSV Eindhoven in the Champions League and the Reds later bowed out by finishing third in the group behind the Dutch side and Wolfsburg. A descent into the Europa League led to elimination by Liverpool over two legs in the last-16 round.  
  An early exit in the League Cup, at home to Middlesbrough on penalties, was more than compensated for by a stirring run in the FA Cup as van Gaal's men brought the trophy back to Old Trafford for a record-equalling 12th time overall and the first time since 2004. But with United's sometimes patchy league form not good enough to secure a top-four position and a place in the Champions League, media speculation about the manager's future was rife. Forty-eight hours after his team won the cup final at Wembley, van Gaal and the club parted company - his tenure was over, two years into a three-year contract.  
  Louis van Gaal enjoys winning the FA Cup in 2016 with Jesse Lingard and Marcus Rashford.  
  Intense speculation that Jose Mourinho would be appointed as United's new manager proved to be accurate on Friday 27 May 2016 when the club announced his arrival in a statement on ManUtd.com. Executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward commented: "José is quite simply the best manager in the game today... his track record of success is ideal to take the club forward."  
  Mourinho himself said: "To become Manchester United manager is a special honour in the game. It is a club known and admired throughout the world. There is a mystique and a romance about it which no other club can match."  
  By the time the new 2016/17 Premier League season kicked off, the new boss had already collected his first piece of silverware - the Community Shield, secured with a 2-1 win over league champions Leicester City at Wembley - and he had acquired four exciting new players in Eric Bailly, Zlatan Ibrahmovic, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and club record signing Paul Pogba. The latter embarked on his second spell with United, having previously made seven first-team appearances in 2011/12 after rising through the Academy and Reserves ranks.  
  By the end of Mourinho’s debut season at Old Trafford he had added two more trophies, the League Cup sealed with victory over Southampton thanks to Zlatan’s late Wembley winner and, thrillingly, the Europa League, that trophy completing United’s full set of honours after a cup final triumph over Ajax in Stockholm. In the summer of 2017, the Reds signed a prolific Premier League striker in Romelu Lukaku from Everton. Mourinho also secured the services of midfielder Nemanja Matic from his former club Chelsea and brought in Sweden centre-back Victor Lindelof from Benfica. Having won the Europa League the previous campaign, United started the 2017/18 season with a UEFA Super Cup clash against Real Madrid, but the Spanish side emerged as 2-1 winners with goals from Isco and Casemiro. The Reds recovered well from the disappointment, winning six of the first seven league games. In January 2018, the club signed Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal and the Chilean helped us to amass our best points tally (81) and achieve our highest league position (second, to runaway champions Manchester City) since Sir Alex Ferguson’s departure. We bowed out of the Champions League by losing in the last 16 to Sevilla but we finished the season with the 20th FA Cup final appearance in our history, only for Chelsea to win 1-0 at Wembley and thwart Mourinho's bid for another trophy with United. Michael Carrick retired from playing at the end of the 2017/18 season, 12 years after signing for United, and he instantly took up a place on the coaching staff. Meanwhile, three new players were acquired - midfielder Fred, full-back Diogo Dalot and goalkeeper Lee Grant - before the 2018/19 term began with a 2-1 home win against Leicester City. However, the promising start could not be maintained and in December, with the team placed sixth in the Premier League table, the club decided to part company with Mourinho. The Portuguese coach was replaced by former Reds striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who was appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the campaign. The Norwegian's impact on results was immediately positive as the Reds won his first eight games in charge, beginning with an emphatic 5-1 away win at Cardiff City - the only British club he had previously managed. When Solskjaer's unbeaten start ended after 11 matches, with a home defeat to Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League, he still had the last laugh as Marcus Rashford's 94th-minute penalty in the second leg meant United won the tie on away goals.  
  That triumph against the odds led to further clamour for Ole to become permanent boss and even though the Reds were knocked out of the FA Cup by Wolves in the meantime, his appointment was duly announced three weeks later. Again, United won the next fixture, at home to Watford, but thereafter the campaign petered out. Barcelona inflicted a Champions League exit in the quarter-finals and, with only two Premier League points gained from the last 15 on offer, United finished the 2018/19 season in sixth place. After signing Harry Maguire, Daniel James and Aaron Wan-Bissaka in the summer, the Reds began Solskjaer's first full season at the helm in patchy form, winning fewer than half of the games in all competitions until the turn of the year. Early 2020 defeats to Arsenal, Liverpool and Burnley in the Premier League, and Manchester City in the League Cup semi-finals, compounded the woes until the signing of Bruno Fernandes in the January transfer window sparked a marked improvement. That ultimately led to a memorable March afternoon at Old Trafford when City were put to the sword in a league derby; however, this proved to be our last domestic game before the Covid-19 pandemic put the entire sporting calendar on hiatus. When football returned in June, with fixtures being played in empty stadia, the players picked up from they had left off and only lost two of the season's last 14 games. Regrettably, the two defeats both came in semi-finals - against Chelsea in the FA Cup and Sevilla in the Europa League - but at least the league campaign had ended on a high note. The Reds' 2-0 away win at Leicester City secured third place and Champions League qualification.  
  Bruno Fernandes signs for United in the January 2020 transfer window.  
  Covid restrictions continued to keep fans away from matches for much of 2020/21. In fact, supporters were not permitted inside Old Trafford until the final home game of the season, in May, when Edinson Cavani scored a stunning long-range goal in a 1-1 draw with Fulham. The Uruguayan striker was one of five players signed that season, alongside Donny van de Beek, Alex Telles, Facundo Pellistri and Amad, and Solskjaer's expanded squad achieved an improved Premier League position as the Reds claimed second spot behind local rivals Manchester City. Ole also came agonisingly close to winning the club's first trophy for four years when he guided United to the Europa League final in Gdasnk, only for his side to lose 11-10 on penalties after drawing 1-1 with Villarreal. The Reds were switched into that competition as a consequence of finishing third in the Champions League stage; meanwhile, the club's runs in the FA Cup and League Cup ended in the quarter-finals and semi-finals respectively. 2021/22 began with great excitement and expectation as the stellar signings of Jadon Sancho and Raphael Varane were followed by the sensational return of Cristiano Ronaldo in a surprise transfer from Juventus. The global football icon scored twice on his second Reds debut as Newcastle United were defeated 4-1 in front of an ecstatic Old Trafford crowd, a month after Leeds United were beaten 5-1 with Bruno Fernandes bagging a hat-trick. Victories were otherwise hard to come by and after winning only five of the first 14 games with Ronaldo back in the fold, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's managerial reign came to an end. The Norwegian's departure was announced the day after a humbling 4-1 away defeat at Watford and his assistant and former team-mate Michael Carrick was placed in temporary charge. Carrick achieved two wins and a draw in his three games as caretaker boss but then announced his decision to leave the club when Ralf Rangnick was appointed interim manager until the end of the season. The remaining months proved very challenging for the Reds, who finished sixth in the Premier League and exited all of the other competitions - the League Cup, FA Cup and Champions League - before the quarter-finals. Erik ten Hag was announced as the new permanent manager on 21 April 2022, but the Dutchman would see out the campaign at Ajax before starting work at Carrington. The new boss oversaw some major changes to the squad as the likes of Edinson Cavani, Jesse Lingard, Juan Mata, Nemanja Matic and Paul Pogba departed during the summer, while Tyrell Malacia, Christian Eriksen, Lisandro Martinez, Casemiro and Antony were acquired. The new signings all played their part as the Reds finished third in the Premier League and beat Newcastle United to win the Carabao Cup, the club's first trophy since 2017. And although Ten Hag's men disappointingly lost the FA Cup final to Manchester City and a Europa League quarter-final tie to Sevilla, the Dutchman's first season at the helm, 2022/23, still represented a big improvement on United's preceding campaigns.  
  Press ESC to close  
  Soccer History of Manchester City FC  
  Manchester City F.C., famously known as The Citizens, is a professional soccer team that competes in the English Premier League. They are based in the City of Manchester.  
  Founded in 1880, Manchester City has grown into a dominant club within the last decade. They play their home game at the City of Manchester Stadium (Etihad Stadium). The stadium can accommodate 55,017 soccer fans. Manchester City trophy cabinet consists of 6 English league titles, 6 FA Cups, 7 EFL Cups, 1 European Cup Winner’s Cup, and 6 FA Community Shields.  
  The arrival of Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan (Sheikh Mansour) has transformed Manchester City into one of the World’s finest soccer team. The history of the club is a must-read for all soccer fans. Without wasting time, let us dive right into the formation of the Manchester club.  
  The Formation Of Manchester City  
  Manchester City was formed in 1880 by members of St. Marks Church. The objective behind the setting up of the team was to stop local gang violence and alcohol problems. Everyone was allowed to join the club.  
  The club’s first match was a 2-1 loss to a church team from Macclesfield. Their first win came against Stalybridge Clarence in March 1881. Their early beginnings as St. Marks slowly but surely evolved, with the club being renamed Ardwick A.F.C. in 1887. In 1892, the Second Division of the English Football League was formed, and Ardwick A.F.C was a founding member.  
  Early Years And First Trophies Of The Citizens  
  In 1894, more changes came upon – the club was renamed Manchester City Football Club to represent Manchester’s entire City. It was also the year in which the squad started wearing their sky blue home jersey.  
  The Sky Blues enjoyed early success, promoting to the top tier in 1899 after winning the Second Division. The team also developed their first club crest and emblazoned it with the now-famous nickname – The Citizens.  
  In 1904, they became the first club from the City of Manchester to win a major trophy by lifting the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 victory over Bolton Wanderers. However, their early success was soon put on the back burner due to financial corruption allegations in 1904 – leading to the suspension of seventeen players, including club captain Billy Meredith.  
  Some years later, a fire outbreak at City’s Hyde Road stadium prompted the club to move to their new Maine Road stadium on Moss Side in 1923. It was the beginning of a slow period of relative obscurity for the club, with their next significant moment not arriving until 1934.  
  During the 1930s, the club reached two F.A. Cup Finals. In 1933, Manchester City lost to Everton in the finals. The Citizens were finalist again in 1934, and they defeated Portsmouth by 2-1 to lift the F.A. Cup again. During the winning cup run, Manchester City set a new record for the highest attendance in English soccer, as 84,569 fans watched the club’s match against Stoke City at Maine Road.  
  First League Title Of Manchester City  
  In 1937, Manchester City won the First Division league title for the first time in their history. However, the club suffered relegation next season. They were unable to defend their title despite scoring the highest number of goals during that campaign.  
  It took The Citizens a decade to achieve promotion back to the English First Divison. They gained automatic promotion after winning Division Two. The club would once again reach two consecutive F.A. Cup Finals. In the first final in 1955, City lost to Newcastle United. They eventually won the 1956 finals by a 3-1 win against Birmingham.  
  Second League Title And First European Trophy  
  Manchester City suffered relegation again in 1963. Consequently, there was a massive slump in match attendances. The future of The Citizens looked bleaker and bleaker. However, the appointment of the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison resulted in instant success. During their first season, the duo helped the team top the Second Division and won promotion back to the First Division.  
  The arrival of several important players in 1968 turned the club into title contenders. Mercer and Allison delivered Manchester City their second League title that season. The club won the title in the last game of the season by beating Newcastle United 4-3. Manchester City neighbours Manchester United finished second.  
  More success followed for The Citizens as they won the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 win over Leicester City in 1969. In 1970, Manchester City completed a brilliant run in the European Cup Winners’ Cup by defeating Górnik Zabrze 2-1 to win their first-ever European trophy. In the same season, The Citizens also won the League Cup, thus becoming the second English side to accomplish a domestic and European Cup double.  
  Relegation To The Third Division  
  The 1970s saw The Citizens challenge for more honours, with a win in the league cup coming in 1976, courtesy of a 2-1 victory over Newcastle United. However, this would mark the end of a successful era for the club and the beginning of the worst decline in Manchester City’s history.  
  Despite spending big to sign new players, the performance of the team declined drastically. The 1980s and 1990s saw them swing between the First and Second Division, with the club changing coaches seven times in the 1980s alone. Yet, the club’s darkest period came in 1998, when Manchester City was relegated to the English Football League’s Third Division.  
  Return To The Premier League  
  Following their relegation, the club underwent massive restructuring and introduced greater fiscal control in a bid to return to the top tier. The strategy paid off as City won back-to-back promotions to return to the Premier League in 2000.  
  However, their return to the top flight wasn’t a memorable one, as the club was relegated again. Kevin Keegan, who joined City at the end of that season, led the team to an immediate promotion to the Premier League, as they were crown champions of Division One in his first entire season at the club.  
  City Of Manchester Stadium  
  In 2003, Manchester City bid farewell to the Main Road Stadium and moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. After playing for 80 years at the Maine Road, The Citizens moved to their new impressive 48,000 capacity stadium. It marked the beginning of a new era and the return to the prominence of the club.  
  After mid-table finishes under Stuart Pearce’s management, City finally appointed a man with a proven pedigree. Sven Goran Eriksson joined the club in 2007; however, after less than a year at the club’s helm, the former England National Team manager was sacked and replaced by Mark Hughes.  
  Abu Dhabi United Group  
  In August 2008, Manchester was acquired by the Abu Dhabi United Group, a company owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan. Former owner, Thaksin Shinawatra, had no option than to sell the club after his political engagements saw his asset frozen.  
  Sheikh Mansour, arguably the richest man in the Middle East, provided the club with an influx of funds never seen before in English soccer. The club wasted little time to break the English transfer record to sign Brazil international player Robinho from Real Madrid. Players like Vincent Company, Gareth Barry, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, and Joleon Lescott joined the club in a bid to win silverwares.  
  Roberto Mancini And The Citizens  
  Despite having many star players at his disposal, Mark Hughes could not qualify The Citizens for the Champions League. By the end of the season, he was replaced by Roberto Mancini.  
  Capturing a title-winning coach with a high reputation in the game meant that City could attract major talents. It led the club to an unprecedented spending spree in the transfer market. Star players like Carlos Tevez, Yaya Toure, David Silva and Sergio Aguero were all signed during Mancini’s era.  
  The long wait for silverware ended in 2011 when City lifted the F.A. Cup with a 1-0 win over Stoke City. In the same season, the club qualified for the Champions League for the first time and changed their home stadium’s name to the Etihad Stadium in line with their new ownership and sponsorship.  
  The Historic Title Win  
  In the 2011/12 season, Manchester City finally ended their title drought by winning the Premier League in the most dramatic fashion. In one of the closest and contested title race ever, Manchester City and neighbours Manchester United went into the last game of the season on equal points.  
  A win against Queens Park Rangers (Q.P.R.) would guarantee an end to the 44-year wait for the League title, as The Citizens commanded a better goal difference.  
  City started the game poorly and was losing 1-0 to Q.P.R. It looked like The Citizens have thrown the title away as rivals Manchester United won their match at Sunderland.  
  However, Edin Dzeko scored in stoppage time to give the club a lifeline and keep their dream alive. With seconds to the game’s final whistle, an individual brilliance from Sergio Aguero saw the Argentinean dribble past the Q.P.R. defenders in the box to slam home the winner in the 93rd minute and finally deliver the club and its fans.  
  Domestic Success Under Manuel Pellegrini  
  Following the title win, Mancini was unable to get the same level of consistency out of his players in the League and Cup competitions and was eventually shown the door. However, the domestic success continued under the arrival of Manuel Pellegrini.  
  The Chilean took over from Mancini in 2013 and promptly built a City side that was very impressive. They won the league again in 2013/14 as Liverpool FC threw the title away with the iconic Steven Gerrard’ slip’ moment against Chelsea.  
  Pellegrini also won a Capital One Cup and two League Cups during his reign. The Chilean managed to sign the young Kevin De Bruyne and Raheem Sterling, who would become star players.  
  Pep Guardiola Era  
  In 2016, Josep “Pep” Guardiola was appointed as the manager of Manchester City. Notably known for his successful spells at Barcelona and Bayern Munich, the Spanish tactician was brought in to instil the club’s domestic success into the European front.  
  While Guardiola did not win any silverware in his first season, he did add several players to the squad in what was underlined as a transitory phase under his leadership.  
  Eventually, in his second spell at the club, Pep’s side dominated the Premier League in an unprecedented fashion. Manchester City won the title with a record-breaking 100 points. The team also broke several records in the process.  
  The Citizens holds the record for most wins in a season (32), which they share with Liverpool. Another record that Manchester City shares with Liverpool are the most consecutive win in the EPL (18). Guardiola men hold the record for the most goals scored in a season (106), and the most away wins (16).  
  In the same season, The Citizens defeated Arsenal F.C. by 3-0 to win the League Cup. In Europe, the team’s progress was halted by local rivals, Liverpool F.C. The Merseyside team, managed by Jurgen Klopp, defeated The Citizens by an astonishing 5-1 over the two legs of the quarter-finals of the Champions League.  
  The intensity of the rivalry between Manchester City and Liverpool was reaching its peak in England. However, as modern soccer fans would remember, the rivalry between Pep Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp dated back to when both coaches challenged each other while managing Bayern Munich and Dortmund, respectively Bundesliga.  
  With the financial backing of the club’s owner, Guardiola was very active in the transfer market and splashed out to bring more star players to the club in a bid to impose his dominance in England and achieve success on the European stage.  
  In his third campaign, City continued to dominate on the domestic front by winning another Premier League title. However, this time, the club had to fight tooth and claw to retain the title against a resurgent Liverpool F.C. The Citizens needed a victory in the last game of the campaign to guarantee the title remained at the Etihad Stadium.  
  Despite trailing by 1-0, City fought back to win the game by 4-1 against Brighton and winning the league title by the smallest margin. More success was achieved during the 2018/19 campaign, as City defeated Chelsea on penalty shootouts in the League Cup final. They also won the F.A. Cup against Watford by a whopping 6-0.  
  In the Champions League, City’s progress was again halted by an English side in the quarter-final. This time, Tottenham won over two legs via the away goal rule, with the aggregate score being 4-4.  
  In the 2019/20 campaign, Pep Guardiola dominance in the English top-flight was put to an end by none other than Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool F.C., hence ruining City’s chance of winning three consecutive Premier League titles.  
  In the Champions League, the club managed to reach the quarter-final for a third consecutive campaign but again felt short. Lyon won the contest by an aggregate score of 3-1 to end Guardiola’s chance of winning his first European trophy with the Citizens.  
  The only consolation of the season came in the League Cup. City won the final over Aston Villa by 2-1, making it their third consecutive League Cup trophy.  
  UEFA Financial Fair Play Rule And The Present  
  Since the takeover of Manchester City by the Abu Dhabi United Group, The Citizens has demonstrated unprecedented spending power in the transfer market, raising regulatory institutions and fans’ eyebrows across the World.  
  Consequently, in 2020, the club was fined 30 million Euros by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (C.A.S.) and banned for two years from all UEFA competitions. The club was alleged to have breached the Financial Fair Play Regulations while failing to provide adequate evidence to the UEFA Financial Control Body.  
  However, Manchester City appealed for the ruling, and the C.A.S duly overturned it. Consequently, the ban from UEFA competitions was lifted. Nevertheless, C.A.S. found that the club failed to cooperate appropriately during the investigation; hence, the fine was reduced to 10 million Euros.  
  In the same year, Guardiola signed a two-year contract extension to stay until 2023 and maintain his club’s commitment. Despite being one of the most successful managers at Manchester City, there is growing pressure for Guardiola to deliver on the European stage.  
  The last decade has seen The Citizen become a dominant force in England and Europe. It is mainly thanks to the investment of the club owners. However, it’s not just wealth that’s taken Manchester City to the top of soccer; many clubs have historically splashed out with no resulting success. It’s a strategic approach to recruiting top players, developing the youth system, and signing astute managers/coaches who have turned them into a behemoth. They will aim at the much desired UEFA Champions League trophy next.  
  Members of St. Mark's Church of England, West Gorton, Manchester, founded the football club that would become known as Manchester City for largely humanitarian purposes. Two church wardens sought to curb local gang violence and alcoholism by instituting new activities for local men, whilst high unemployment plagued East Manchester, specifically Gorton. All men were welcome to join, regardless of religion.  
  A church cricket club had been formed in 1875, but no equivalent for the winter months existed.[2] To rectify this, and as part of Rector Arthur Connell's general push to intervene in social ills, church wardens William Beastow and Thomas Goodbehere, who held senior positions at the Union Iron Works,[3] started a church football team called St Mark's (West Gorton), sometimes written as West Gorton (St Mark's), in the winter of 1880.[4]  
  The team's first recorded match occurred on 13 November 1880, against a church team from Macclesfield. St. Marks lost the match 2–1, and only won one match during their inaugural 1880–81 season, with a victory over Stalybridge Clarence in March 1881.[5]  
  City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division. They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904, beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup; City narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the League but City became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour.[6] In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith, who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United.[7] A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side.[8]  
  In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933, before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934.[9] During the 1934 cup run, Manchester City broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth round FA Cup tie against Stoke City in 1934—a record which still stands to this day.[10] The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division.[11] Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United, and won the second. The 1956 final, in which Manchester City beat Birmingham City 3–1, is one of the most famous finals of all-time, and is remembered for City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck.[12]  
  After relegation to the Second Division in 1963, the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965.[13] In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell.[14] Two seasons later, in 1967–68, Manchester City claimed the League Championship for the second time, clinching the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 win at Newcastle United and beating their close neighbours Manchester United into second place.[15] Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969, before achieving European success by winning the European Cup Winners' Cup in 1970, beating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in Vienna.[16] City also won the League Cup that season, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season.  
  The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup.[17] One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals.[18][19] The final trophy of the club's most successful period was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final.  
  A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley.[20] A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond, City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur. The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 and finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of Peter Reid.[21] However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992, but after finishing ninth in its first season they endured three seasons of struggle before being relegated in 1996. After two seasons in Division One, City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third league tier, after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany.  
  After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline.[22] City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in a play-off against Gillingham. A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan arrived as the new manager in the close season, bringing an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 Division One championship, breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a season in the process.[23] The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road, and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a run of 13 years without a derby win.[24] City also qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years. In the 2003 close season the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first manager from overseas when appointed in 2007.[25] After a bright start performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked in June 2008.[26] Eriksson was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later on 4 June 2008.[27]  
  By 2008, the club was in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club a year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen.[28] Then, in August 2008, the club was purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group. The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million.[29] Performances were not a huge improvement on the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth, although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup. During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry, Roque Santa Cruz, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, Carlos Tevez and Joleon Lescott.[30] In December 2009, Mark Hughes—who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board—was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini.[31] City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League, narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League, and competed in the UEFA Europa League in season 2010–11.  
  Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. City reached the 2011 FA Cup Final, their first major final in over thirty years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-final,[32] the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. They defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup, the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. In the same week, the club qualified for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1968 with a 1–0 Premier League win over Tottenham Hotspur.[33] On the last day of the 2010–11 season, City passed Arsenal for third place in the Premier League, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage. Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season, with the club beginning the following season in commanding form, including beating Tottenham 5–1 at White Hart Lane and humbling Manchester United by a 6–1 scoreline in United's own stadium. Although the strong form waned half-way through the season, and City at one point fell eight points behind their bitter rivals with only six games left to play, an unprecedented slump by the previous champions allowed the blue side of Manchester to draw back level with two games to go, setting up a thrilling finale to the season with both teams going into the last day equal on points. Despite City only needing a home win against a team in the relegation zone, they still managed to fall a goal behind by the end of normal time, leading some of United's players to finish their game celebrating in the belief that they had won the league. Two goals in injury time—including one scored almost five minutes after normal time had elapsed—resulted in an almost-literal last-minute title victory, City's first in 44 years, and became only the fifth team to win the Premier League since its creation in 1992. In the aftermath that followed, the event was described by media sources from the UK and around the world as the greatest moment in Premier League history.[34][35]  
  After an end to the season which many believed would only spur City on, however, the following season failed to capitalise on any of the gains made in the first two full seasons of Mancini's reign. The transfer window saw virtually no players join the club until the last day of the season, when a last-minute burst of activity saw four different players all join in the space of around 10 hours. The free-flowing football of the previous season was suddenly rare to behold, and while City rarely seemed likely to drop below second in the table, they posed little title challenge all season. In the UEFA Champions League, the club was eliminated at the group stage for a second successive season, in a result which seemed to confirm Mancini's reputation as far better at managing in domestic games than European, while a second FA Cup final in three seasons ended in a 1–0 defeat to relegated Wigan Athletic.[36] The loss resulted in Mancini's dismissal, ostensibly as he had failed to reach his targets for the season[37] but with many in the press suggesting a break-down of relations between Mancini and his players[38] but also between the Italian and his board-level superiors,[39] while a refusal to promote young players was also cited.[40] In his place was appointed the Chilean Manuel Pellegrini,[41] who boasted a far more impressive Champions League record but less of a reputation for trophy-winning.  
  In Pellegrini's first season, City won the League Cup and regained the Premier League title on the last matchday of the season.[42][43] However, the team's league form was less impressive in the next couple of years: although they finished as runners-up in 2014–15, the 2015–16 campaign saw City end up fourth on goal difference, their lowest position since 2010. On the other hand, Pellegrini delivered another League Cup win and, more importantly, he guided City to the Champions League semi-finals, which they narrowly lost to future champions Real Madrid. This was the club's highest-ever finish in the Champions League, but Pellegrini's reign was nonetheless ended in anticipation of City's dream manager.[44]  
  The following season, Guardiola guided the club to retain their Premier League and League Cup titles, the first time in history that City had completed any successful title defence. The team then went on to win the FA Cup final and complete an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles.[49]  
  In 2020, UEFA banned Manchester City from European competitions for two seasons for alleged breaches of the UEFA Financial Fair Play Regulations; the club appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, who overturned the ban within months, finding that some allegations were above the five-years-old limit for such UEFA investigations, while the other allegations were unproven. The CAS also reduced UEFA's fine from €30 to €10 million.[50][51]  
  In the COVID-19 affected 2020–21 Premier League season, Manchester City regained their title from Liverpool, becoming champions for the third time in four years.[52] They ended the season twelve points ahead of second-placed Manchester United, winning the title with three games to spare.[53] They also won the League Cup for a record-equalling fourth consecutive and eighth time in total, beating Tottenham 1–0 in the final.[54] City's league victory was the tenth league and cup title of Guardiola's five-year tenure, making him the most successful manager in the club's history.[55] The season was highlighted by City's European breakthrough, with the club reaching their first-ever Champions League final,[56] where they met Chelsea, making it the third all-English final in the competition's history. However, the Blues were defeated 1–0 at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto, courtesy of a Kai Havertz goal. Still, City's breakthrough marked their most successful European campaign to date.[57]  
  The Blues produced another campaign to remember in 2021–22, retaining their league title, following another close title race with Liverpool and making it four titles in five seasons. In another case of "typical City", needing four points from their last two fixtures, the Blues had fallen behind by two goals in both games, only to recover to a 2–2 draw against West Ham away, and to a 3–2 win at home to Aston Villa in the season finale. These last three goals were all scored in a five-minute blitz between the 76th and 81st minutes, in moments that would sit alongside the famous victories in the 1999 play-off final against Gillingham and the 2011–12 Premier League finale against QPR.[58] City also reached the Champions League semi-finals again that season (and for only the third time in their history), but were beaten there by Real Madrid 6–5 on aggregate a.e.t. over two closely fought and very dramatic games.[59]  
  As of the end of the 2021–22 season, Manchester City had won four league titles in five seasons under Guardiola's reign, retaining them on two occasions. They had twice won the title by a single point from Liverpool, in the process developing a fierce new rivalry, that also translated to managers Guardiola and Jürgen Klopp, as well as the fans of the respective clubs. Guardiola had also guided City to their first ever Champions League final, and a further semi-finals, which was lost in dramatic circumstances to Real Madrid. The 2020–21 and 2021–22 seasons were also notable as the end of City's record goalscorer Sergio Agüero's career at the club after 10 seasons and 260 goals. The Blues struggled to immediately recruit a replacement and so employed a false nine role extensively in accomplishing their objectives these seasons.  
  However, with the European success eluding the brilliant City squad, some pundits and fans like still questioned whether that side would go down in history as one of the greatest of all time. The 2022–23 season rendered all those talking points irrelevant, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and, most importantly, their maiden Champions League title, thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble. The road to the Champions League victory included convincing victories over the perennial favorites and European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate, and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City after their controversial 6–5 extra time victory at the same stage a year before.[60][61][62]  
  ^ James, Gary (2006). Manchester City : the complete record : every game, every scorer, every player and every attendance, memorable matches, complete history, pen pictures, manager profiles, appearance records. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1859835120. OCLC 156890195.  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 27–36  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 37–56  
  ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, pp. 13–22  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, pp. 410–420  
  ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 68  
  ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4. p. 177  
  ^ "Club Statement". Manchester City F.C. 13 May 2013. Archived from the original on 20 June 2016. Retrieved 7 October 2013.  
  History of Manchester City F.C. (1965–2001)  
  This page chronicles the history of Manchester City in further detail from 1965 to 2001. See History of Manchester City F.C. for a history overview of Manchester City.  
  Following relegation in 1963, George Poyser became manager and purchased Derek Kevan, Jimmy Murray and Johnny Crossan whilst promoting homegrown players Alan Oakes and Glyn Pardoe but could not arrest the decline in the club's fortunes. The nadir came on 16 January 1965, when a mere 8,015 spectators watched the team lose 2–1 to Swindon Town, a record low for a league match at Maine Road.[1] The club finished the season eleventh in the Second Division, at that point the lowest finish in the club's history;[2] Poyser resigned shortly before the end of the season.[3] Poyser soon resigned in Easter 1965 leaving City manager-less heading into the 1965–66 season.  
  During the close season 1964–1965 the club was overhauled by chairman Albert Alexander and he appointed Joe Mercer as the club's new manager on 13 July 1965.[4] Mercer had had moderate success at Aston Villa, where he won the inaugural League Cup, but left after suffering a stroke in 1964.[5] Mercer however wanted to stay on as manager at Villa feeling he had more to give the club despite his apparent ailments, but when Mercer felt he was badly treated he decided to move on with Villa citing that the split was "by mutual consent".[5]  
  Consequently, he needed a younger, fitter, assistant to run training sessions, and chose the flamboyant and dynamic Malcolm Allison, who had recently departed Plymouth Argyle after a spell as manager.[5] Allison had other job offers from Stanley Matthews at Port Vale, Raich Carter at Middlesbrough and Joe Mercer at City which he took after admitting he had always claimed a love to City after listening to them on the radio during the [1933 FA cup final).  
  In the first season under Mercer, City won the division Two championship and gained promotion back to the top flight whilst making important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell, who later formed a formidable partnership with Francis Lee upfront.  
  The following 1966–67 season was fairly unremarkable for City with a 15th-place finish, though the team ended the season on a run of just four losses in seventeen games.  
  After Manchester United won the league title in 1966–67, United player Paddy Crerand bet Malcolm Allison £10 that Manchester City would never again attract crowds of 30,000.[6] His bet proved foolish and he had to pay up within weeks of the new season, as in 1967–68 City would go on to claim the league title.[6]  
  City's season opened with a 0–0 draw at home to Liverpool. City were awarded a penalty, but new captain Tony Book hit it wide.[7] Two defeats followed, at Southampton and Stoke. The Stoke defeat led to a tactical switch. Mike Summerbee, who played wide on the right at the start of the season, was moved to centre-forward.[8] The change reaped immediate dividends, with Summerbee playing a leading role in a 4–2 win against Southampton.[7] This was the first in a run of five straight wins, after which Manchester City had caught up with the league leaders.[9] During this run of wins young winger Stan Bowles made his league debut, scoring twice in a 5–2 win against Sheffield United.[10]  
  City's search for a new goalkeeper ended with the signing of Ken Mulhearn from Stockport County on 21 September, in a deal that involved City's back-up goalkeeper Alan Ogley moving in the opposite direction.[11] Harry Dowd kept goal in the next match, a 1–0 defeat at Arsenal,[12] but then dislocated a finger, prompting a debut for Mulhearn in the season's first Manchester derby.[11] Mulhearn was reputedly so nervous before the match that Allison locked him in the medical room until he calmed down.[11] Colin Bell scored the opener after five minutes, but two Bobby Charlton goals meant a win for United. In the second half of the match, Bowles exchanged punches with Brian Kidd, though neither man was sent off, largely thanks to the intervention of their respective captains.[13] The derby loss was followed by a third consecutive defeat, at Sunderland.  
  A couple of days after the Roker Park defeat, Manchester City completed the signing of centre-forward Francis Lee from Bolton Wanderers for a club record £60,000.[14] During negotiations Mercer stated to Lee that "we feel we've got the start of a good side. We are just one player short, and we think you are that player."[15] Lee made his debut in a 2–0 win at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers, the start of an 11 match unbeaten run,[16] including a 6–0 win against Leicester City.[17]  
  Midway through their unbeaten run, City faced Tottenham Hotspur at home in snowy conditions, in a match televised on Match of the Day. As the teams came out onto the frozen pitch, commentator Kenneth Wolstenholme called the Manchester City team as "the most exciting team in England".[18] Aided by a modification to the studs on their boots suggested by Tony Book,[19] City produced one of the best footballing performances in their history. One Spurs player was quoted as saying, "It was extraordinary. City moved like Olympic speed skaters while we were falling around like clowns on a skid patch."[18] Tottenham took an early lead through Jimmy Greaves, but Bell equalised before half-time, and in the second half City besieged Tottenham, scoring three more times to win 4–1. After the match City trailed the league leaders by only a single point.[20] The match was named as Match of the Day's "Match of the Season",[20] and as the only match at Maine Road that season to be recorded for television,[21] is the foremost recorded example of the 1967–68 team in action.  
  The unbeaten run came to an end at Christmas, with back-to-back defeats in matches against West Bromwich Albion causing the club to fall to fourth place.[22] The team commenced 1968 with a seven match unbeaten run, which came to an end with a defeat at Don Revie's Leeds United. A visit to local rivals and league leaders Manchester United then followed. United took an early lead, but City rallied to win 3–1.  
  In late April, after City won 1–0 against Sheffield Wednesday and title rivals United lost to West Bromwich Albion, City were in a position where winning their final three games would all but guarantee the championship.[23] In the first of the three, a home match against Everton, City won 2–0 in a match featuring Tony Book's first league goal for the club.[24] Next was Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane. City took a 3–0 lead before half time, eventually winning 3–1.[24]  
  Going into the final match, City were level on points with neighbours United. Liverpool were three points behind, but had a game in hand, so could still win the title if both City and United faltered.[25] City faced tenth-placed Newcastle United at St James' Park; United were at home to bottom-half Sunderland. Bookmakers made United slight favourites for the title.[26] Mike Summerbee opened the scoring on 13 minutes, but Newcastle soon equalised.[27] Neil Young made it 2–1, but again Newcastle equalised. A second strike by Young was disallowed for offside, and at half-time the score was 2–2. Straight after half-time Young scored again, and Francis Lee scored a fourth at 63 minutes.[28] A late Newcastle goal set up a nervy finish, but City held on to win 4–3 and secure the title.[28]  
  City won the FA Cup in 1969, a victory that gave City qualification to challenge the European Cup Winners Cup the following season, which they won. The defending champions struggled in the league however and finished 13th whilst also disappointing in the European Cup, being knocked out in the first round by Fenerbahçe and the third round of the League Cup.  
  Cup Winners Cup and League Cup double (1969-70)[edit]  
  Jeff Astle opened the scoring for Albion after five minutes, becoming the first player to score in the final of both the League Cup and FA Cup at Wembley. He had already scored in the first leg of the 1966 League Cup Final four years previously, however that was at West Ham's Boleyn Ground. City equalised through Mike Doyle to send the game into extra-time, and eventually won 2–1, with Glyn Pardoe scoring the winner.  
  Manchester City qualified for the Cup Winners' Cup by winning the FA Cup in the 1968–69 season. It was only Manchester City's second European campaign. Their maiden entry into European competition, an appearance in the 1967–68 European Cup, saw the club exit in the opening round. Manchester City played the away leg first in every round. Their first tie was against Spanish club Athletic Bilbao, who were themselves managed by an Englishman, Ronnie Allen.[30] In the first leg, City recovered from a two-goal deficit to secure a 3–3 draw.[30] The home leg was a comfortable 3–0 win.  
  Manchester City were without winger Mike Summerbee with a leg injury that had troubled him since the League Cup Final the previous month.[31] However Summerbee was fit enough to be named as a substitute.[32]  
  Manchester City started strongly, particularly Francis Lee; The Guardian correspondent wrote "Lee, indefatigable and nigh irresistible continually embarrassed the Gornik defence in the early stages".[33] Lee had the first chance of the match, a close range shot which was saved by Kostka.[33] Manchester City took the lead in the 12th minute. Lee cut in from the left wing, escaping a tackle from Alfred Olek, and struck a fierce shot.[34] Goalkeeper Hubert Kostka parried the ball, only for it to land at the feet of Neil Young for a simple finish.[35] Shortly after City defender Mike Doyle sustained an ankle injury after colliding with Stefan Florenski.[35] Manchester City played on with ten men for a period as Doyle received treatment from trainer Dave Ewing, but the defender was unable to continue. Substitute Ian Bowyer replaced him.[36] The change prompted an alteration in formation, in which Colin Bell switched to a deeper position.[33] Shortly before half-time, Young won the ball after loose play from Florenski, which put him clear on goal.[34] As Young moved into the penalty area Kostka rushed out of his goal and upended him, leaving the referee no option but to give a penalty. Lee struck the spot-kick with power into the centre of the goal. Kostka's legs made contact with the ball, but the force of the shot carried it into the net to make it 2–0.[35][37] Górnik got a goal back midway through the second half, but there were no more goals and the match finished 2–1.  
  Winning manager Joe Mercer said "the heavy rain in the second half ruined the game" and that he was "quite happy with the performance of our team, although the technical level was rather low in the second half".[38]  
  Manchester City again impressed in the 1971 Cup Winners Cup and reached the semi-final in a hard-fought quarter-final. City met Górnik Zabrze in the quarter-final, the team City defeated to claim the title the year before in 1970. Zabrze beat City 2–0 in the first leg to a jubilant crowd of 100,000 in Poland and after the match the City duo of Francis Lee and Mike Summerbee practised reverse psychology and celebrated their loss on the pitch in front of the bemused Polish supporters and players.[40] City won the return leg 2–0 at Maine Road to secure a replay at a neutral venue, which was Copenhagen with 12,100 City supporters making the trip to Denmark to see their team defeat Zabrze 3–1.[40]  
  The win secured a place in the semi-final against the only English team left, Chelsea FC. However City chances of progressing to the second successive final were severely hindered before the match even started with Alan Oakes, Colin Bell, Mike Doyle, Glyn Pardoe and Mike Summerbee all unavailable due to injury before the first leg.[40] It was perhaps no surprise City lost the leg at Stamford Bridge 1–0 and Tommy Booth and key goalkeeper Joe Corrigan were injured for the return leg at Maine Road, losing again 1–0.[40]  
  Four point lead but throw away the championship (1972)[edit]  
  "I have to hold my hands up – I cost Manchester City the 1972 league championship."  
  —Rodney Marsh[39] whose playing style did not suit his City team-mates  
  1971 brought a change in the nature of the management partnership, with Mercer taking the title of general manager, and media-friendly Allison being promoted to Team Manager. In the 1971–72 season City had been sailing to the championship, assembling a 4-point lead in mid-March, a large margin at a time during English football when only 2 points were awarded for a win.  
  However, City's season petered out with a poor run of results at the end of the season and a fourth-place finish, which many blamed on the signing of crowd-pleaser Rodney Marsh, who, despite his talent, was regarded as disrupting the balance of the team.[39]  
  "Joe and I were a perfect partnership. Apart from the tenseness of those last few months, I think we had barely two disagreements in all the time we worked together. I never for one moment regretted working with Joe Mercer, and I know he felt the same way about working with me. We had some fabulous times together and built some fabulous teams. The Mercer-Allison years at Manchester City were the best years of my life. If Joe was still with us today, I think he'd say the same"  
  The close season saw the break-up of the Mercer-Allison management team, with Mercer leaving for Coventry City as his relationship with Allison deteriorated. The final straw came when Mercer claimed that his parking space and his name from the door of his office had been removed,[42] whilst chairman Peter Swales later said, "the board had to choose between Malcolm Allison and Joe Mercer – and we chose Malcolm Allison".[43] Sympathy for Mercer was stronger than for Allison who was now seen as ruthless in getting to Mercer's manager role he craved.,[43] as Allison later said on Mercer's untainted departure, "Joe had controlled his personal position with great skill. He had come out smelling roses."[42]  
  Despite the animosity and discord between the two, Mercer was and is still seen with great affection and his widow Norah Mercer later said that Joe Mercer's time at City was one of the most enjoyable periods of his life, adding that he loved the supporters and players at the club.[44]  
  Allison finally takes over but instability ensues (1972–1974)[edit]  
  Manchester City were invited to take part in the 1972 FA Charity Shield in which they beat Aston Villa 1–0. From 1972 to 1974 Manchester City underwent several changes both on and off the field. Businessman Peter Swales gained control of the club, and Malcolm Allison resigned midway through a poor 1972/73 season that almost saw the club relegated. Long-serving coach Johnny Hart took over the side and steered them to survival and a decent finish, which earned him the manager's position on a permanent basis at the end of the season. His term as manager proved short-lived however, as health problems forced him to quit a few months into the following season. Norwich City manager Ron Saunders was recruited as Hart's replacement, and under his management the club reached the 1974 League Cup final, which they narrowly lost. The team struggled to maintain consistency in Division One however, and Saunders was sacked with a month of the season left to go, and City not safe from relegation by any means.  
  Former club captain Tony Book took charge of first team affairs, restoring some stability. Book was a loyal member of the club, even prior and after his spell as manager still remained in a variety of different roles and most importantly Book had the respect of his players and his appointment was a popular choice.[45]  
  City's final match of the 1973–74 season was against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to stand a chance of avoiding relegation. City themselves were still in with a mathematical chance of relegation, though merely avoiding defeat would put survival beyond all doubt. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win and confirm the relegation of their rivals.[46] The game was remembered too for Denis Law's non-celebration as he condemned his former side to the second tier of English football whilst Mancunian teammate at City Mike Doyle could not contain his delight as he ran the length of the pitch to congratulate Law.[47]  
  During the 1973–74 close season City were a side in transition as legends Mike Summerbee and Francis Lee leaving and Denis Law retiring. Book opened the chequebook and signed Joe Royle and Asa Hartford who both proved themselves as wise buys.[45] Overall City were moderately successful during Tony Book's five-year tenure, winning the League Cup in 1976 by beating Newcastle United 2–1 in the final, and finishing runners-up in the League in 1977 after Liverpool pipped City to the title by 1 point. Furthermore, Book had a good record in the following years in the League Cup reaching the quarter-finals on two occasions and reached the UEFA Cup quarter-finals in 1979.  
  Mid-table mediocrity and relegation (1979–1983)[edit]  
  A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Despite their cup runs, 1978-79 proved to be a poor league campaign, with a three-month winless run mid-campaign leaving them in serious danger of relegation. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club, initially as chief coach, and helped them to a run of form that saw them survive relatively comfortably. At the end of the season, Book was relieved of his duties (though kept on in the role of general manager) and Allison was appointed as sole manager, but squandered large sums of money on unsuccessful signings whilst selling stars such as Asa Hartford, Gary Owen and Peter Barnes. One was the signing of Steve Daley, which broke the British transfer record. A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. City had made a very poor start to the 1980–81 season, costing Allison his job.  
  Allison was replaced by another exuberant character in John Bond who, ironically, had replaced former City manager Ron Saunders at Norwich City seven years earlier.[48] Bond galvanised the side by signing experienced reinforcements to complement promising youngsters at the club, oversaw an upturn in results which saw City finish in a more respectable mid-table position, whilst the following season saw a 10th-place finish and was highlighted by a 3–1 win over Liverpool at Anfield.  
  Bond took Manchester City to the final of the 1981 FA Cup with a surprise 1–0 win over Ipswich Town at Villa Park in the semi-finals.[49] The win saw City reach Wembley for the FA Cup Final against Tottenham Hotspur. A 1–1 draw meant the final went to a replay, a game they lost 3–2, made famous by Ricky Villa's goal (the game also featured a spectacular volley by City's Steve MacKenzie).  
  During their FA Cup run, Bond guided Manchester City to a 6–0 win over former club Norwich City at Maine Road in the fourth round. At the end of this thrilling game, Bond jumped from an upper tier of the stand into the player's tunnel, in order that he could offer his commiserations to son Kevin, who was playing for Norwich. An act which Danny Baker describes as "attempting a bit of James Bond" in the Match of the 80s nostalgia TV show 16 years later. [1] Two years later, with City in mid-table and seemingly going nowhere (though at the same time not seeming in danger of relegation), Bond was sacked after a dispute with the board and replaced by coach John Benson.  
  Decline and manager merry-go round (1984–1989)[edit]  
  Unfortunately, a catastrophic loss of form under Benson (11 points from 19 games) saw City crash out of the First Division after losing to Luton Town on the last day of the season, when a draw would have prevented relegation.  
  Billy McNeill took over as manager during the summer, and after a near-miss the following season, achieved promotion in 1985. This renaissance proved short-lived however, as City barely avoided being immediately relegated in 1986, and McNeill left the club to become manager of Aston Villa a few weeks into the next season.  
  Jimmy Frizzell became manager for the rest of the season, but failed to prevent relegation with City finishing the season in second-bottom place and suffering relegation alongside Aston Villa and Leicester City. Frizzell then stepped down to be succeeded by Mel Machin.  
  City won promotion back to the First Division in 1989 after finishing runners-up in the Second Division under the management of Mel Machin.  
  1989–90 was a difficult season and Machin was sacked in November with relegation looking a real possibility. Probably the season's most memorable match was a 5–1 drubbing of locals rivals Manchester United,[50] a dejected Alex Ferguson later said it was the most "embarrassing" managerial defeat of his career.[51] Machin was replaced by former Everton manager Howard Kendall, who achieved survival and built the foundations for a good start to the 1990–91 season.  
  But he returned to Everton in November 1990 and was replaced by 34-year-old midfielder Peter Reid. Reid's first two seasons at the helm brought fifth-place finishes, but City did not qualify for the UEFA Cup because only the second and third teams qualified for the competition in these years. City finished a respectable ninth in the inaugural Premiership but Reid lost his job after only two games of the 1993–94 season.  
  The new taller Kippax stand – "the ship that never sailed" in the eyes of one resident[52]  
  1993–94 saw City's problems return as its league form slumped and the club finished 16th under new manager Brian Horton. Chairman Peter Swales buckled under pressure from fans and handed control of the club over to legendary former player Francis Lee. 1994–95 was hardly any better as a dismal second half of the season saw City finish 17th – two places above the drop zone. Horton was sacked just before the end of the season and replaced by Southampton manager Alan Ball. Ball set about trying to rebuild City and disposed of several older players who were no longer proving effective. He drafted in several promising young players, most notably the 22-year-old Georgian midfielder Giorgi Kinkladze. But a terrible start to the season condemned City to a relegation battle which was lost on the final day.  
  City also had to say farewell to the beloved "Kippax" stand in 1994 which had to be demolished in favour of a new stand. The era of standing accommodation at Maine Road came to an end in May 1994 as the stadium became all-seater to comply with the requirements of the Taylor Report with the demolition of the Kippax Street Terrace. The final match where standing was permitted took place on 30 April 1994,[53] Chelsea the visitors for a 2–2 draw. Immediately prior to demolition the capacity of the Kippax terrace was 18,300.[54] A three-tier stand was built in its place, holding nearly 14,000 spectators, and on its completion in October 1995 it was of the tallest stand in the country. It was not cheap either, at a cost of £16m in 1994, four times the turnover of the club as then-chairman Francis Lee later highlighted.[55] The revamp of the Kippax was the second phase of a five-part development plan which would cost £40m[56] and increase the stadium's capacity to 45,024, however the club abandoned these plans and attention was more aimed at the ongoings on the pitch as City continued their 90s slide down English football.[56]  
  Ball was sacked soon after City's 1996–97 Division One campaign got underway, and his successor Steve Coppell resigned after just 6 matches in charge and 33 days as manager, claiming that the job was too much pressure for him.[57][58] Phil Neal took over on a caretaker basis for 10 games however he lost 7 of these and by Christmas, City were in the bottom half of Division One and had turned to former Nottingham Forest manager Frank Clark to arrest the decline. City finished 14th in the final table.  
  But Clark was sacked the following February with City hovering in the bottom five of Division One. Former Oldham and Everton manager Joe Royle was drafted in to replace Clark, but a 5–2 away win over also-doomed Stoke on the final day of the season was not enough to save them from relegation because both Portsmouth and Port Vale won their games. City were now a Division Two side and had slipped into the third tier of the English league for the first time in their history – the first former winners of a European trophy to suffer this indignity along with Nottingham Forest and Leeds United in the following years.  
  After relegation, the club underwent some off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein taking over. City were promoted at the first attempt, albeit in typical dramatic fashion in a thrilling playoff final against Gillingham at Wembley featuring a late equalising goal by Paul Dickov to take the game to a penalty shoot-out which City won. Dickov's goal is arguably the most important in Manchester City's recent history,[59] failure to get promoted in the first season of being in the third division of football might have impaled City to the lower depths of English football for a number of years.[59][60]  
  In the 1999–2000 Division One campaign, City spent all season challenging for automatic promotion. They achieved it on the final day of the season by finishing runners-up in the division.  
  City's return to the Premiership saw them struggle and they were relegated after losing their penultimate game of the 2000–01 season – the first time that all of the Premiership's relegation places had been decided before the final game. Royle was sacked after the end of the season on 21 May 2001,[61] however his sacking was not welcomed by many former City players and neither were many happy with chairman David Bernstein after Royle's future as manager was reassured regardless of relegation only weeks earlier.[62] He was replaced by the former England manager Kevin Keegan as City fell back into the lower divisions again.  
  ^ Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years. Derby: Breedon. p. 8. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8.  
  ^ Ardwick finished 13th in the Second Division in 1894, but at that time there were only 16 clubs in the First Division.  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years, p10  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years, p19  
  ^ a b c Penney, Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years, p13  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, pp. 125–6.  
  ^ Summerbee, Mike Summerbee – The Autobiography, p. 108.  
  ^ James, The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame, p. 130.  
  ^ a b James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 126.  
  ^ McOwan, Gavin (2002). The Essential History of West Bromwich Albion. Headline. p. 261. ISBN 0-7553-1146-9.  
  ^ a b Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, p. 14.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 130.  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years, p. 134  
  ^ a b c Paul Fitzpatrick (30 April 1970). "Lee Inspired by Vienna". The Guardian.  
  ^ a b Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, p. 20.  
  ^ a b c d Clayton, David (2002). Everything under the Blue Moon: the complete book of Manchester City FC – and more!. Edinburgh: Mainstream publishing. p. 75. ISBN 1-84018-687-9.  
  ^ Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years. Derby: Breedon. p. 176. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8.  
  ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated anyway if the match had been drawn, but neither team knew this at the time.  
  ^ Waldon, Andrew (2003). Waiting for the Whistle: Manchester City's Last Season at Maine Road. Stroud: Tempus. ISBN 0-7524-3055-6. p9  
  ^ "The Kippax Last Stand". Manchester City v Chelsea match programme. 30 April 1994.  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  James, Gary (2002). Manchester: The Greatest City. Polar Publishing.  
  Clayton, David (2002). Everything under the Blue Moon: the complete book of Manchester City FC – and more!. Edinburgh: Mainstream publishing. ISBN 1-84018-687-9.  
  Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8.  
  Press ESC to close  
  Soccer History Of Manchester United FC  
  Manchester United is a professional soccer team from England which competes in the English Premier League. They are the team with the biggest fan-base in England and the third most followed team worldwide.  
  Nicknamed “The Red Devils”, Manchester United play their home games at Old Trafford. The stadium can accommodate 74,140 fans. Manchester United hold the record for the most First Division/Premier League trophies won (20 titles). They are also successful in European competitions, having won 3 UEFA Champions League trophies, 1 UEFA Europa League, 1 FIFA Club World Cup, and 1 European Super Cup.  
  Mostly known for their aggressive playing style under Sir Alex Ferguson, Manchester United is a dominant sports powerhouse and a great soccer institution. Let us have a look at the history of the Old Trafford club.  
  Foundation Of Manchester United And Early Years  
  The year 1878 marked the formation of Manchester United. The club was previously known as Newton Heath LYR Football Club. The Red Devils were set up by workers at the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway depot at Newton Heath.  
  For several years, the team played in the regional soccer league before making its entrance to the First Division in 1892. However, United’s spell in the top-flight was brief. The club was relegated a couple of years after their debut, following play-off defeat at Second Division champions Liverpool FC.  
  Later, in 1902, club captain Harry Stafford and other business people, including John Henry Davies, bought the club to save it from liquidation. Subsequently, Henry was elected as President, and the team was renamed Manchester United Football Club. It was also the same year the club started wearing the famous red and white jersey.  
  First Silverware And Old Trafford  
  Under Ernest Mangnall’s leadership, Manchester United won back promotion to the First Division in 1906, twelve years after their relegation. Mangnall, who managed to sign several star players, namely Billy Meredith and Sandy Turnbull, steered the club to its first-ever league title in 1908. A FA Cup win followed the club’s first major title in the next season and another league title in 1911.  
  During the same period, with the financial backing of John Henry, the club acquired a plot of land. The land turned into the famous Old Trafford. While the Red Devils’ future and fortunes looked promising, the departure of Mangnall to Manchester City FC marked the end of a successful era and the start of a steady decline. United soon became a yo-yo club, fighting relegation and promotion for several years.  
  Sir Matt Busby And The Munich Disaster  
  In 1945, Sir Matt Busby, a former Manchester City and Liverpool FC player, joined Manchester United as head coach. Optimism started to grow among the fans. The ongoing Second World War was still in the back of everyone’s mind. Besides, the club’s dreadful performances nearly led to relegation to the Third Division.  
  The Scot who went on an illustrious 25 years’ career with Manchester United is regarded as an influential figure in its success. He instantly impacted as the team finished second to Liverpool FC in his first season (1946-47). In the following campaign, United defeated Blackpool FC to win the FA Cup, 39 years since the club last won a major trophy.  
  During his time, Busby would introduce several local young talents to the team. These young players, who were nicknamed ‘The Busby Babes’, were instrumental in bringing back glory to the club. In the 1951/52 campaign, a 41-years’ wait came to an end, as the club were crown league champions.  
  On 5 February 1958, Manchester United travelled to Yugoslavia for their European Cup quarter-finals’ second leg. The team drew 3-3 against Red Star Belgrade but qualified for the semi-finals thanks to a 2-1 home win. On their return, the team’s chartered plane stopped at Munich Airport for refuelling.  
  Due to engine problems, take-off had to be aborted twice. On the third attempt, as the plane was about to take off, the airspeed significantly dropped. It led the aircraft off the runway to finish its course against a house. As a result of the crash, 22 people lost their lives, including seven players. To this day, the tragedy is still mourned by Manchester United and by the wider soccer community.  
  The Red Devils  
  As Busby was recovering from his injuries, Jimmy Murphy took over, and the club managed to reach the FA Cup Final, losing to Bolton Wanderers. In the 1960s, the arrival of Denis Law, Bobby Charlton and George Best saw a formidable partnership, known as ‘The United Trinity’. Their incredible performances and goals galore would turn the club into a dominating force in both England and Europe.  
  During their time at the club, all three players won the Ballon d’Or. As a tribute to their contribution, a statue, The United Trinity, can be seen outside Old Trafford.  
  With a more mature team at his disposal, Sir Matt Busby labelled his players as ‘The Red Devils’. The name originates from ‘Les Diables Rouges’, a term used by the French media to describe Salford, an English rugby club, after they toured France in their red jerseys.  
  Busby felt it would suit his team’s aggressive playing style and intimidate opponents compared to ‘The Busby Babes’. Subsequently, this resulted in incorporating the famous devil logo in the badge and merchandise of the club.  
  European Success And Post-Busby  
  In 1967-68, Manchester United defeated Benfica 4-1 (a.e.t) in the European Cup final at Wembley Stadium. Three extra-time goals from Bobby Charlton, George Best, and Brian Kidd were more than enough for the club to claim their first-ever European Cup. It was the last trophy won by Busby as he retired at the end of the 1969 campaign. During his tenure, the Scot led the club to 5 league titles, 2 FA Cups and 1 European Cup.  
  There was immense pressure to iterate Busby’s accomplishment. After the short and unsuccessful tenure of Wilf McGuiness and Frank O’Farrell, Tommy Docherty was appointed as manager in December 1972.  
  Docherty could not perform better than his predecessors, and eventually, the club was relegated to the Second Division in 1973-74. However, Manchester United secured promotion immediately after finishing first in the subsequent season. In 1977, Docherty led the team to an FA Cup triumph over Liverpool FC. It would be his only silverware as manager since he was soon sacked and replaced by Dave Sexton.  
  The failure to deliver silverware led to the sacking of Sexton after four years at the hot seat. He was shortly replaced by Ron Atkinson, who led the team at the beginning of the 1981-82 campaign. Atkinson took little time to instil his authority upon the group. He recruited several influential players and later broke the British transfer record to sign Bryan Robson.  
  The move paid off as the club won 2 FA cups (1983 and 1985) in 3 seasons. Although Atkinson managed to bring back silverware to the club, he could not deliver the league title back to Old Trafford. He was eventually sacked at the end of the 1985/86 campaign.  
  The Sir Alex Ferguson Era  
  After several failed attempts to win the league, Manchester United finally set their sights on a man with a proven winning pedigree. After his successful spell at Aberdeen Football Club, Alex Ferguson was appointed in November 1986.  
  Despite a slow start to his managerial career, Alex Ferguson finally delivered his first silverware to the club by winning the FA Cup in 1990. The next campaign saw the club win the European Cup Winners’ Cup, ending a 23 years’ wait for European success. Two goals from Mark Hughes helped the team beat Barcelona 2-1 in the final.  
  In December 1992, Manchester United signed Eric Cantona from their arch-rival, Leeds United. The star player’s recruitment would prove instrumental as The Red Devils finally won the league title in 1992-93. Alex Ferguson delivered his first of many league titles to the club, ending a 26 years’ wait since Manchester United last won the league title.  
  In the next campaign (1993-94), Ferguson led the team to a historic double, winning both the league title and the FA Cup. A feat he would reiterate in 1995-96 and 1998-99 seasons. A new era of success was being written at the club, as silverwares would keep flowing at Old Trafford.  
  Sir Alex Ferguson was a ruthless leader and a man with great self-confidence. His vision and winning mentality would resonate throughout the clubs and players that he managed. He is also known as a person who expected good discipline and strong character from his players on-and-off the pitch.  
  During his tenure, Ferguson was known for his bold and aggressive transfer spree. Significant investment into the squad allowed him to deliver silverware consistently. Over the years, he made countless recruitment, breaking the transfer fee records on several occasions.  
  Class Of 92 And Treble Winner  
  The Class of 92 is another success story of the Ferguson Era. Talented players that were part of the Class of 92 were David Beckham, Nicky Butt, Ryan Giggs, Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Paul Scholes. They were notably known as the golden generation of players that peaked in the 1998-99 season and played a major role in the club’s success.  
  In 1999, Manchester United went into the history books as the first English team to win the treble. Having already been crowned champions of the Premier League and FA Cup, the club went into the UEFA Champions League Final as the underdogs. Thanks to injury-time goals from Teddy Sheringham and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, Manchester United made a historic comeback to beat Bayern Munich FC 2-1.  
  The Living Legend Of Manchester United  
  After his heroics and contribution to English soccer, Alex Ferguson was knighted in June 1999. The man is known for his unique man-management skills and ability to get the best out of his squad. Ferguson managed and signed some incredible players during his career.  
  Ferguson signed players like Mark Hughes, Peter Schmeichel, Eric Cantona, Roy Keane, Ruud Van Nistelrooy, Rio Ferdinand, Christiano Ronaldo, and Wayne Rooney.  
  Sir Alex Ferguson went on to be the longest-serving manager in the club’s history, a record previously held by Sir Matt Busby. During his 26 years spell at the club’s helm, he won a massive 38 trophies, including 13 League titles, 5 FA Cups, and 2 UEFA Champions Leagues.  
  At the end of the 2012-13 season, Sir Alex Ferguson finally resigned as manager, putting an end to a historical era. Following his decision to leave, he was abundantly praised as the most outstanding and most successful manager of all time by the soccer fraternity. Today, he remains an active figure as the Director and Ambassador of Manchester Football Club.  
  Post Ferguson Era  
  By the end of Ferguson’s era, Chelsea FC and Manchester City FC, both backed by their wealthy owners, would put an end to the dominance of The Red Devils. After Alex Ferguson’s resignation, David Moyes was appointed to continue the legacy left behind by his predecessor.  
  Despite his excellent track record at his previous employer, Everton FC, David Moyes failed to maintain the team’s status. He was sacked within 12 months at the club and was temporarily replaced by club legend Ryan Giggs until the end of the season.  
  The following season, Louis Van Gaal, a man with a proven pedigree, was appointed. There was a lot of optimism upon his arrival, and the man took little time to instil his authority. He made several marquee signings and even broke the club transfer fee record by recruiting Angel Di Maria from Real Madrid FC.  
  In his second year with the club, Van Gaal was intriguingly sacked despite winning the FA Cup. Manchester United was a title-winning team, and the team’s inability to challenge the league title was getting on the board members’ nerves.  
  Jose Mourinho Appointment As Manchester United Coach  
  In May 2016, in the quest to restore the club to glory, Manchester United appointed Jose Mourinho, also known as the Special One. Having won league titles with four clubs in 4 different countries, including Chelsea FC, Mourinho had the perfect profile to bring back the Premier League crown.  
  Like Van Gaal, Mourinho brought several players to the club, including the new club-record signing, Paul Pogba. In his first season, the Special One did not disappoint, as he won the Community Shield, the League Cup and the Europa League.  
  In his second spell at the Club, Mourinho guided the team to a second-place finish in the league; it was the club’s best league performance since Sir Alex Ferguson’s departure. However, despite reinforcing the team’s attacking options with Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez, the team finished the season empty-handed.  
  In December 2018, with the team seemingly out of the title contention, Jose Mourinho was sacked. Before his departure, Mourinho had an ongoing feud with some of his star players and mentioned his disagreement over the club’s transfer policies.  
  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer (2018 – Present)  
  After Jose Mourinho’s sacking, club legend Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was appointed as caretaker manager for the rest of the campaign. Following an impressive 14 wins in 19 matches in the league, Solskjaer appointment was made permanent for three years.  
  Despite not winning any silverware since his arrival, Solsjkaer’s management approach and recruitment policy have been praised, as the team is starting to click again. With the marquee signings of Harry Maguire, Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Daniel James and Bruno Fernandes, and the promotion of academy talents such as Scott McTominay and Mason Greenwood, there is hope that the old glory days will be back sooner than later.  
  A contest between a pair of the Premier League’s scoring leaders is set when Erling Haaland (first) and Manchester City take on Arsenal FC and Bukayo Saka (sixth) on Sunday, March 31, 2024 at Etihad Stadium starting at 11:30 AM ET, broadcast on NBC (DirecTV SAT (DVB-S)), Telemundo, Peacock Premium, and Fubo TV.  
  Manchester City drew its last game, 1-1, against Liverpool FC away from home on March 10. Liverpool outshot Manchester City by a margin of 19 to 10. John Stones netted the only goal for his side in the match against Liverpool.  
  Arsenal knocked off Brentford FC 2-1 at home in its most recent match on March 9, outshooting Brentford FC 16 to eight. Kai Havertz and Declan Rice both scored a goal for Arsenal.  
  Before this soccer showdown, here’s what you need to get ready for Sunday’s action.  
  Premier League odds and betting lines  
  Manchester City odds: (-112, bet $112 to win $100)  
  Arsenal odds: (+290, bet $100 to win $290)  
  Draw odds: +274  
  Gannett may earn revenue from sports betting operators for audience referrals to betting services. Sports betting operators have no influence over nor are any such revenues in any way dependent on or linked to the newsrooms or news coverage. Terms apply, see operator site for Terms and Conditions. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, help is available. Call the National Council on Problem Gambling 24/7 at 1-800-GAMBLER (NJ, OH), 1-800-522-4700 (CO), 1-800-BETS-OFF (IA), 1-800-9-WITH-IT (IN). Must be 21 or older to gamble. Sports betting and gambling are not legal in all locations. Be sure to comply with laws applicable where you reside.  
  We occasionally recommend interesting products and services. If you make a purchase by clicking one of the links, we may earn an affiliate fee. FTW operates independently, though, and this doesn’t influence our coverage.  
  Cookie banner  
  We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from. To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy. Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.  
  By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  
  International Break Presents Huge Setback for Manchester City  
  Share this story  
  Share All sharing options for: International Break Presents Huge Setback for Manchester City  
  Pep Guardiola is said to have warned his players ahead of the international break to manage themselves carefully in order to prevent any injuries. The City boss even joked that he would go after any player that came back from the break injured. But it seems his warning fell on deaf ears.  
  Several City players have so far been reported to be struggling with one injury or the other. Kyle Walker even had to leave the England camp due to a suspected hamstring problem he picked up early in the friendly game against Brazil.  
  John Stones, who rarely starts two games in a row for Manchester City these days due to his injury record, played the full 90 minutes for the Three Lions in the 0-1 loss to Brazil. He then went on to start again against Belgium on Tuesday night.  
  It’s not surprising then that the England center back was soon injured and had to be replaced early into the game. Jack Grealish did not report for England duty at all as he is still recovering from his own injury.  
  Add to that Kevin De Bruyne, Edison, Matheus Nunes, and Erling Haaland who also struggled with fitness issues while with Norway and the number rises to seven City players who may not be fit enough to face Arsenal on Sunday.  
  Considering the enormity of the game in the race for the Premier League title, City could be playing with fire here. The Blues face a huge challenge trying to defend their three trophies won last season. Results from the crucial games in the next few weeks against tough opposition could make or mar the season.  
  With Arsenal and Liverpool ready to pounce at any given opportunity to wrestle the league title away from City while Real Madrid are also waiting to pick up any pieces in the Champions League, City need to be at their best and have their best players available.  
  The international break could just be City’s undoing if these players do not recover on time to help carry the team during this difficult period.  
  England manager Gareth Southgate lamented about the situation with Stones in his post match press conference. But that will do little or nothing to remedy the situation.  
  “Of course, we’re disappointed if he’s got a problem. It looks like it’s in the abductor area. He came in on the back of not playing for two weeks, so it’s not about overload. But I hate sending players back to their clubs injured,” said Southgate.  
  However, apart from Walker and Stones, the other players don’t look to have serious problems that could keep them out for long. They could be back in time for these crucial games, especially against Arsenal and Real Madrid.  
  De Bruyne and Grealish have been pictured in training earlier this week, and with Sunday still several days away, more players could be fully recovered by then. If that happens, the team will be close to full strength when Mikel Arteta’s men turn up at the Etihad Stadium.  
  Sections  
  Jarrad Branthwaite on Manchester United radar ahead of potential summer move  
  Centre-back spent last season on loan at PSV and has broken into Everton’s starting line-up this term with series of impressive performances  
  England centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite is being looked at by Manchester United as a possible summer target in one of their priority areas to bolster for next season.  
  ‌Branthwaite, 21, was called up by Gareth Southgate for this week’s internationals after his breakthrough season in the Premier League after spending last season at PSV in Holland.  
  ‌While United have yet to push forward with summer plans, Branthwaite is highly regarded at Old Trafford as one of the most promising homegrown prospects at centre-back.  
  ‌There is uncertainty over that position as Raphael Varane has one full season left on his contract and interest from Saudi Arabia. As revealed by Telegraph Sport last month, a centre-back is an area United are looking at.  
  ‌They are also in the market for a striker to support Rasmus Hojlund and will look at right-backs. Casemiro’s future, and whether he stays at the club, will determine whether they look at central midfielder.  
  ‌Branthwaite is among the centre-backs likely to be considered at the end of the season, when transfer budgets tend to get decided as it is known whether United will be playing in the Champions League as they were this term.  
  ‌Everton’s own situation could determine Branthwaite’s future and his value on the transfer market. They are battling against relegation from the Premier League and Branthwaite will be one of their most valuable assets in the summer.  
  ‌It is expected to be a busy market for centre-backs in the summer with Marc Guehi at Crystal Palace also earning admirers in the Premier League. Guehi and Branthwaite are expected to both break through the £50 million barrier as homegrown talents who are in Southgate’s plans.  
  ‌Branthwaite did not play for England during the international break, with Southgate using Joe Gomez and Ezri Konsa.  
  ‌“He’s played consistently well,” said Southgate. “We watched him as a back-up centre-back at the Under-21 finals last year and if you would have said then he would play as consistently well at PL level as he has, I would have questioned that. That is a credit to him. He’s good with the ball, shows good composure and mentality and we don’t have many left-footers.”  
  Cookie banner  
  We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from. To learn more or opt-out, read our Cookie Policy. Please also read our Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, which became effective December 20, 2019.  
  By choosing I Accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  
  Joao Cancelo Fires Shots at Pep Guardiola and Manchester City  
  Share this story  
  Share All sharing options for: Joao Cancelo Fires Shots at Pep Guardiola and Manchester City  
  Joao Cancelo has hit out at both Pep Guardiola and Manchester City following his fallout with the manager and the club that led to his abrupt departure on loan in January 2023.  
  For a player that was considered one of City’s best assets prior to signing a contract extension in 2022, how could things have taken such a dramatic turn downhill? This is a relationship breakdown of enormous proportions.  
  City had opted to hand the Portuguese a two-year extension on his contract even though he still had three years left on the deal. That was as a result of how important he was considered in the team.  
  So no one could have expected that just under a year later the player will have to leave the team to continue his career elsewhere. So bad was the breakdown in the relationship that even the passage of time and the end of the loan deal at Bayern Munich could not heal the wounds.  
  That led to his subsequent departure to Barcelona on a one-year loan deal with an option for the sani to buy. Although Barcelona president Joan Laporta has expressed his desire to either extend the player’s one year stay further or buy him outright, there was still a faint hope of the player returning to Manchester City at the end of the season.  
  That faint hope has now been extinguished following his outburst against Guardiola and City. Speaking in an interview while on international break with Portugal, the defender went full-throttle, attacking both the manager and club regarding events that led to his departure on loan.  
  The initial story was that the right back was a disruptive influence in the team and so hard to leave in order to maintain harmony within the squad. He was said to be particularly unhappy at the fact Rico Lewis and Nathan Ake were getting more game time than he was. But he has now vehemently denied that assertion.  
  Speaking to Portuguese newspaper A Bola, Cancelo tried to set the record straight. He stated: “Lies were told! I’ve never been a bad team-mate for them and you can ask either Ake or Rico. I don’t have any superiority or inferiority complex towards them, but that’s the manager’s opinion...”  
  Asked if he was disappointed by the reports that made the rounds concerning the incident, he added: “I was because it wasn’t true. I think Man City were a bit ungrateful to me when they said that, because I was a very important player in the years I was there. I never failed in my commitment to the club, to the fans and I always gave everything.  
  “I remember a time when I was robbed and attacked and the next day I was playing at the Emirates against Arsenal. These are things you don’t forget, I left my wife and my daughter alone at home, terrified.  
  “People will only remember this because Mister Guardiola has much more strength than me when he says something and I prefer to keep to myself. I prefer to know that I am telling the truth, I feel fulfilled with what I did. I am a transparent person, I never lie.”  
  By going all out to criticize both the manager and the club, the 29-year-old may have just slammed the door shut on any possibility of returning to City. At this point, he has burnt any bridges left to return to the Etihad Stadium.  
  Worse still, he may have soiled his relationship with the club as a whole. Too bad for a player who was an important member of the team that helped City win back-to-back Premier League titles and was expected to be a key part of the team for years to come.  
  As much as he may want to deny the fact, the rift came at a huge cost to him. Not only has that been in financial terms following the reduction in his pay while at Barcelona, but more importantly as he missed out on winning the Champions League with City last term, despite contributing to that success in the first half of the campaign.  
  John Stones: Man City facing injury crisis after England centre-back joins Kyle Walker and Manuel Akanji in treatment room  
  John Stones joins Kyle Walker in being forced off injured while on duty with England during this break; the pair, along with Manuel Akanji, are doubts for Man City's title-race clash with Arsenal at the Etihad on Sunday, which is live on Sky Sports Premier League; kick-off 4.30pm  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 09:07, UK  
  John Stones limped off injured early on during England's match against Belgium on Tuesday, just days ahead of Manchester City's huge Premier League clash with Arsenal.  
  The City defender was substituted off after nine minutes at Wembley and replaced by Joe Gomez.  
  It's a further blow for Man City boss Pep Guardiola, who saw another of his defenders, Kyle Walker, forced off injured during England's friendly with Brazil on Saturday, while centre-back Manuel Akanji withdrew from Switzerland's squad with a knock.  
  Stones, Walker and Akanji will now be doubts for that meeting of the title rivals at the Etihad Stadium on Sunday, which is live on Sky Sports.  
  Southgate: No regrets over Stones  
  In his post-match press conference, England boss Gareth Southgate was asked if he had any regrets in starting Stones, who had played the full 90 minutes of England's defeat to Brazil on Saturday:  
  "The first game wasn't a game which was a high level in terms of intensity. We've done exactly what Holland did with Virgil van Dijk and Nathan Ake and what Norway did with Martin Odegaard and Erling Haaland. It only seems to fall on us when there's a question on that.  
  "Of course, we're disappointed if he's got a problem. It looks like it's in the abductor area. He came in on the back of not playing for two weeks, so it's not about overload. But I hate sending players back to their clubs injured."  
  Also See:  
  Reporting from Wembley, Sky Sports' Rob Dorsett said: "Oh no. More injury problems for England. John Stones has indicated to the bench he has a groin problem. Joe Gomez is hurriedly warming up.  
  "Spare a thought for Pep Guardiola, ahead of this huge Premier League encounter against Arsenal on Sunday. Already concerned about Kyle Walker and his hamstring problem that's forced him out of the England squad, now Stones - who doesn't go down or come off the pitch easily - has a groin problem. "  
  But Walker expected to be fit for Arsenal clash  
  Kyle Walker is expected to recover from injury in time for Man City's huge match against title rivals Arsenal on Sunday - live on Sky Sports.  
  The defender suffered a hamstring injury playing for England 1-0 defeat to Brazil at Wembley and was forced off after 20 minutes clutching the back of his left leg.  
  However, the issue is not thought to be too serious and City are hopeful he will be available for Sunday's crucial Premier League game at the Etihad, with leaders Arsenal one point ahead in the table.  
  The initial diagnosis suggested a tight hamstring rather than a strain, but his progress will be monitored over the coming days.  
  Walker, who captained England at Wembley, left the national team camp on Monday to return to City.  
  Guardiola will be hoping his deputy captain can return to full fitness quickly ahead of an important month of fixtures which sees City play in three competitions as they go in search of a double treble.  
  ‘Lies were told’: João Cancelo blasts Manchester City over his departure  
  Full-back says club ‘ungrateful’ after he helped win two titles  
  £60m signing on loan at Barcelona after spell at Bayern Munich  
  João Cancelo has accused Manchester City of being “ungrateful” and claimed “lies were told” about his exit from the club.  
  The Portugal full-back is on a season-long loan at Barcelona after a spell at Bayern Munich in the second half of last term. Cancelo had been a key part of manager Pep Guardiola’s squad until shortly before his unexpected, deadline-day departure for Germany in January 2023.  
  Stories later emerged suggesting Cancelo, who had fallen behind Rico Lewis and Nathan Aké in the pecking order, had been a disruptive influence in the dressing room.  
  The 29-year-old told the Portuguese sports newspaper A Bola: “Lies were told. I was never a bad companion for them and you can ask either Aké or Rico. I don’t have any superiority or inferiority complex towards them.  
  “I think Manchester City were a bit ungrateful to me when they said that because I was a very important player in the years I was there. I never failed in my commitment to the club, to the fans. I always gave everything.”  
  Cancelo, who joined City in a £60m move from Juventus in 2019, won back-to-back Premier League titles in 2021 and 2022. He felt his commitment to the club was clear for all to see when he played in a game at Arsenal on New Year’s Day 2022, with facial injuries visible after an attack in his home just hours earlier.  
  He said: “I remember a time when I was robbed and attacked and the next day I was playing at the Emirates against Arsenal. These are things you don’t forget. I left my wife and daughter alone at home, terrified. People will only remember this because Mr Guardiola has much more strength than me when he says something, and I prefer to keep to myself.”  
  Updated to match played 16 March 2024 Source: FBRef, Manchester City website, [1] Ordered by squad number. Appearances include league and cup appearances, including as substitute. Includes EDS players who train regularly with the first team, having made at least one previous league appearance.  
  Record league victory – 11–3 v. Lincoln City (23 March 1895, most goals scored), 10–0 v. Darwen (18 February 1899, widest margin of victory)[1]  
  Record FA Cup victory – 12–0 v. Liverpool Stanley (4 October 1890)[2]  
  Record European defeat – 0–4 v Barcelona, UEFA Champions League group stage, 19 October 2016[5]  
  Longest winning run in all competitions: 21, 19 December 2020 – 2 March 2021 (all games won over 90 minutes) (national record)  
  Longest league winning run: 18, 26 August 2017 – 27 December 2017 (joint national record)  
  Longest league winning run from the start of a calendar year: 13, 3 January 2021 – 2 March 2021 (national record)  
  Longest run of games without going behind in the Premier League: 19, 28 November 2020 – 2 March 2021 (joint national record)  
  Longest winning run in the FA Cup: 10, 6 January 2019 – 28 June 2020 and 8 January 2023 – 16 March 2024 (ongoing)  
  Longest winning run in the League Cup: 16, 20 September 2017 – 7 January 2020 (including penalty shoot-out wins)  
  Most home wins in a row (all competitions): 23, 8 January 2023 – 7 November 2023 (record by Premier League team)  
  Most away wins in a row (all competitions): 20, 19 December 2020 – 14 May 2021 (national record)  
  Most home wins in a row (league): 20, 5 March 2011 – 21 March 2012  
  Most away wins in a row (league): 12, 19 December 2020 – 14 May 2021 (national record)  
  Longest winning run in UEFA competitions: 10, 17 May 2023 – 6 March 2024 (ongoing) (record by an English team)  
  Most home wins in a row (UEFA Champions League): 12, 9 March 2022 – 6 March 2024 (ongoing)  
  Most UEFA Champions League wins in a single season: 11, in the 2020–21 season (record by an English team)  
  Longest unbeaten run (all competitions): 28, 27 April 2017 – 3 December 2017 and 25 November 2020 – 2 March 2021  
  Longest unbeaten home run (all competitions): 42, 13 December 1919 – 19 November 1921  
  Longest unbeaten away run (all competitions): 23, 25 November 2020 – 14 May 2021  
  Longest league unbeaten run: 30, 8 April 2017 – 2 January 2018  
  Longest league unbeaten away run: 22, 11 September 2021 – 17 September 2022  
  Longest unbeaten run in UEFA Competitions: 22, 6 September 2022 – 6 March 2024 (ongoing) (record by an English team)  
  Longest unbeaten run in the UEFA Champions League: 21, 6 September 2022 – 6 March 2024 (ongoing)  
  Longest unbeaten home run in the UEFA Champions League: 30, 7 November 2018 – 6 March 2024 (ongoing) (record by an English team)  
  Longest unbeaten away run in the UEFA Champions League: 10, 18 September 2019 – 28 April 2021 and 6 September 2022 – 13 February 2024 (ongoing)  
  Longest winless run: 18, 26 December 1979 – 7 April 1980  
  Longest home winless run: 9, 26 December 1979 – 7 April 1980  
  Longest away winless run: 34, 11 February 1986 – 17 October 1987  
  Longest winless run in the UEFA Champions League: 6, 18 September 2012 – 4 December 2012  
  Most goals scored in a season (all competitions): 169, 2018–19[6] (national record)  
  Most home goals scored in a season (all competitions): 100, 2018–19 and 2022–23[7]  
  Most league goals scored in a season: 108, 1926–27 and 2001–02[8]  
  Most goals scored in a Premier League season: 106, 2017–18 (national record)  
  Most goals scored in a Premier League calendar year: 113, 2021[9] (national record)  
  Most league goals conceded in a season: 102, 1962–63  
  Most Premier League goals conceded in a season: 65, 2000–01  
  Most points in a league season (2 points per win): 62, 1946–47 Second Division[8]  
  Most points in a league season (3 points per win): 100, 2017–18 Premier League[8] (national record for highest level)  
  Most league wins in a season: 32, 2017–18[10] and 2018–19[11] (national record)  
  Most league wins in a calendar year: 36, 2021[9] (national record for highest level)  
  Most away league wins in a calendar year: 19, 2021[9] (national record for highest level)  
  Most home league wins in a season: 19, 1920–21 and 2001–02  
  Most away league wins in a season: 16, 2017–18  
  Most league draws in a season: 18, 1993–94  
  Most league defeats in a season: 22, 1958–59, 1959–60 and 1997–98  
  Most Premier League defeats in a season: 21, 2005–06  
  Each season since the end of the 1966–67 season, the members of the Manchester City Official Supporters Club have voted by ballot to choose the player on the team they feel is the worthiest of recognition for his performances during that season. The following table lists all of the recipients of this award since 2000.  
  Sergio Agüero: 7, shared most in the Premier League (October 2013, November 2014, January 2016, April 2016, January 2018, February 2019, January 2020)  
  Raheem Sterling: 3 (August 2016, November 2018, December 2021)  
  This table lists the top ten Manchester City players with the most appearances for the club (minimum 436 appearances). Figures out of brackets are match starts and in brackets are additional substitute appearances. Columns are sorted and ranked in order of total (start + sub) appearances Names in bold are players who are still at the club at present.  
  Current player with the most appearances: Kevin De Bruyne – 311 (49) as of 11 January 2024 – ranked 24th on the all-time list.[26]  
  Current player with the most goals: Kevin De Bruyne – 97 as of 11 January 2024 – ranked 18th on the all-time list.[26]  
  Most goals scored in all competitions: 260 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most goals scored in one season in all competitions: 52 – Erling Haaland (2022–23) (most by a Premier League player)  
  Most consecutive matches scored in (all competitions): 10 – Erling Haaland, 21 August 2022 – 8 October 2022.  
  Most matches scored in Manchester City history: 186 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most braces in Manchester City history: 37 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most hat-tricks scored for Manchester City: 16 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most hat-tricks in one season: 6 – Erling Haaland (in 2022–23).  
  Most goals scored in a match in any competition: 6 – Denis Law v Luton Town, 28 January 1961.  
  Youngest goalscorer in all competitions: Rony Lopes scored 5 January 2013 vs Watford (in FA Cup 3rd round) aged 17 years 8 days[27]  
  All-time top goalscorers in First Division / Premier League[edit]  
  Most goals scored in First Division / Premier League: 184 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21) (most Premier League goals for a non-English player).  
  Most goals scored in one First Division season: 38 – Tommy Johnson (1928–29).  
  Most goals scored in one Premier League season: 36 – Erling Haaland (2022–23) (record for most Premier League goals in a season)  
  Most consecutive Premier League matches scored in: 7 – Sergio Agüero (12 May 2019 – 21 September 2019) and Erling Haaland (21 August 2022 – 8 October 2022).  
  Most home goals in one Premier League season: 22 – Erling Haaland (2022–23)  
  Most away goals in one Premier League season: 14 – Erling Haaland (2022–23)  
  Most Premier League matches scored in while playing for Manchester City: 131 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most Premier League matches scored in during a single season: 23 – Erling Haaland (2022–23)  
  Most home matches scored in one Premier League season: 12 – Erling Haaland (2022–23)  
  Most away matches scored in one Premier League season: 11 – Erling Haaland (2022–23)  
  Most braces scored in Premier League: 26 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most hat-tricks scored in the Premier League: 12 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21) (national record).  
  Most Premier League hat-tricks in one season: 4 – Erling Haaland (in 2022–23)  
  Most home goals scored in club history in Premier League: 109 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most away goals scored in club history in Premier League: 74 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Most penalties scored in Premier League: 27 – Sergio Agüero (2011–21).  
  Youngest Premier League goalscorer: Micah Richards - scored on 30 September 2006 vs. Everton aged 18 years 98 days.  
  All-time top goalscorers in continental competitions[edit]  
  In this table "Others" refer to historical and defunct continental competitions such as the Cup Winners' Cup, Anglo-Italian Cup with no current equivalent competition. Goals scored in the old European Cup and UEFA Cup are included in the Champions League and Europa League columns respectively.  
  Youngest scorer in the UEFA Champions League: Rico Lewis – scored on 2 November 2022 vs. Sevilla, aged 17 years 346 days  
  All-time top goalscorers in knockout phases of continental competitions[edit]  
  Number of times player scored a hat-trick (only for players with multiple hat-tricks)  
  Most goals scored in League Cup finals: 2 – Sergio Agüero (2018 and 2020).  
  Most goals scored in the Community Shield: 3 – Francis Lee (1968 and 1972).  
  Youngest goalscorer in domestic cup competitions post 1946: Rony Lopes scored 5 January 2013 vs Watford (FA Cup) aged 17 years 8 days  
  Manchester City top goalscorers in a single season (all competitive matches)[edit]  
  This table lists players who have scored more than 30 goals in a single season. Ordered by goals scored and by season. Bold denotes an active player for the club.  
  League goals are all scored in the English top tier division (First Division or Premier League) and Continental goals are all scored in the UEFA Champions League unless otherwise indicated.  
  Key  
  † - scored in second tier (Second Division / Division One / Championship).  
  Note: Assist data has only been recorded by the Premier League and Opta since 1992–93  
  Most assists in all competitions in one season: 29 – Kevin De Bruyne in 2022–23  
  Most assists in a Premier League season: 20 – Kevin De Bruyne in 2019–20 (shared national record)  
  Most assists in a Premier League match: 4 – Jérémy Doku (vs. Bournemouth, 4 November 2023)  
  Most assists in a UEFA competition match: 3 – Kevin De Bruyne (vs. Tottenham Hotspur, UEFA Champions League, 17 April 2019) and João Cancelo (vs. Club Brugge, UEFA Champions League, 3 November 2021)  
  Statistics correct as of 10 March 2024[30]. Bold denotes an active player for the club.  
  Statistics correct as of 10 March 2024[30][31]. Bold denotes an active player for the club.  
  Statistics correct as of 13 February 2024.[30][32] Bold denotes an active player for the club.  
  Most clean sheets in one season: 33 in 61 matches, 2018–19  
  Most clean sheets by an individual goalkeeper in one season: 29, Joe Hart, 2010–11  
  Most clean sheets by an individual goalkeeper: 185, Joe Corrigan (1967–1983)  
  Most consecutive Premier League Golden Glove awards: 3, Joe Hart (2010–11, 2011–12, 2012–13), Ederson (2019–20, 2020–21, 2021–22)  
  Most clean sheets overall in the Premier League: 110, Ederson (2017–)  
  Most Premier League clean sheets by an individual goalkeeper in one season: 20, Ederson, 2018–19 (38 matches) and 2021–22 (37 matches)  
  Most clean sheets overall in the UEFA Champions League: 28, Ederson (2017–)  
  Most consecutive clean sheets in the UEFA Champions League: 7, 27 October 2020 – 16 March 2021  
  Most consecutive clean sheets in all competitions during a season: 6, 25 November 2020 – 12 December 2020  
  Most consecutive league clean sheets during a season: 6, 15 September 2018 – 29 October 2018 and 13 January 2021 – 3 February 2021  
  Longest run without a clean sheet: 14 matches, 15 December 2004 – 9 April 2005  
  Statistics correct as of 6 March 2024. Bold denotes an active player for the club.  
  Note: Other players (vice-captains) have led the team on the pitch when the club captain is not playing. Other players have been made captain on a one off basis to celebrate or commemorate an event. E.g. Oleksandr Zinchenko captained the team in their 2021–22 FA Cup fifth round tie at Peterborough United in support of his opposition to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.[33]  
  Many transfers have undisclosed fees, and thus transfer fees are not accurate. Where players have signed/left on undisclosed fees, a reference is given for the estimated transfer fee from a reputable source.  
  Most goals scored under manager: 1,125 – Pep Guardiola  
  Highest win percentage (at least one season in charge): 72.7% – Pep Guardiola (2016–present)  
  Lowest win percentage (at least one season in charge): 25.0% – Malcolm Allison (1979–1980)  
  Pep Guardiola (11): February 2017, September 2017, October 2017, November 2017, December 2017, February 2019, April 2019, January 2021, February 2021, November 2021, December 2021  
  Manuel Pellegrini (4): December 2013, January 2014, December 2014, August 2015  
  The following players represented their countries while playing for Manchester City. Many of these players also gained caps/goals while at other clubs. It excludes caps/goals earned by players while on loan from City to other clubs. Figures for active players in bold Last updated 27 March 2024  
  International honours won while playing at City[edit]  
  The following players have won the FIFA World Cup while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the FIFA Confederations Cup while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the UEFA Nations League while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the Copa América while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the Africa Cup of Nations while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the CONCACAF Nations League while playing for Manchester City:  
  The following players have won the OFC Nations Cup while playing for Manchester City:  
  The figure in brackets is the number of international caps gained while a Manchester City player. It excludes caps earned by players while on loan from City to other clubs. Players are listed in alphabetical order by country and by name.  
  Sources (where not otherwise indicated): for UEFA nations[52] for other nations[53]  
  ^ Brook also played three games in the 1939–40 season, which were expunged from the records following the outbreak of the Second World War.  
  ^ Agüero began the tournament as a City player, but his contract with the club ended prior to the final game, with him joining Barcelona  
  ^ Bony won the title with his country after he had signed for the club, but before he had made his City debut  
  ^ most caps won by a City player while at the club  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City - The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  Specific  
  ^ a b James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 509  
  ^ a b James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 511  
  ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o "Chronological Progression of Record". Manchester City FC Match programme. 13 September 2008.  
  ^ Some contemporary sources reported the fee as £800, a British record. However, Manchester City's accounts listed the fee as £450.  
  Clubs are grouped by their division in the 2022–23 season. • ‡ club based in Wales that competes in English leagues.  
  List of Manchester City F.C. seasons  
  Manchester City Football Club is an English professional association football club based in Manchester, that currently plays in the Premier League. The following list covers the period from 1891 (when the club, then known as Ardwick, joined the Football Alliance) to the present day. It details the club's achievements in senior league and cup competitions, and the top scorers for each season. The club was renamed Manchester City F.C. in 1894, and moved to Maine Road in 1923. Since 2003, they have played at the City of Manchester Stadium (most commonly known as the Etihad Stadium). Manchester City's biggest rivals are Manchester United; they compete against each other in the Manchester derby. A more recent rivalry with Liverpool has overshadowed the derby in recent years due to both City and Liverpool directly competing for the titles against each other.  
  Manchester City were formed in 1880 as West Gorton (St. Marks).[1] At this time organised league football did not exist; ordinary matches (that today would be called friendly games) were arranged on a largely ad hoc basis and supplemented by the competitive games that cup competition required. No complete record of the club's matches prior to 1891 survives. In 1890, the club entered the FA Cup for the first time, but withdrew in the second qualifying round. The following season, they joined the Football Alliance and in 1892 were elected to the newly formed Football League Second Division. In 1894, the club restructured, changing its name to Manchester City in the process.  
  In 1970, League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup victories were both achieved in the same season, making Manchester City only the second English club (Leeds United were the first in 1968) to achieve a European cup double within the same year,[3] and the first English club to do so within the same season. The Blues were also the last team to win the English league championship with a team consisting entirely of players of English nationality (many of whom were also native Mancunians). They are, as of 2023, the only English club to win all major domestic honours in the same season (in 2018–19).[4] In 2023, Manchester City achieved their greatest success so far, winning the prestigious continental treble, which included the club's first-ever European Cup title.[5][6]  
  As of the end of the 2022–23 season, Manchester City have played 5,603 competitive matches.[7][8] In that time the club has spent 94 seasons in the top division of English football, 26 seasons in the second, and one season in the third.  
  No competitive football was played between 1915 and 1919 due to the First World War. During the war, the club played in the Lancashire section of the non-competitive War Leagues.  
  No competitive football was played between 1939 and 1946 due to the Second World War. During the war, the club played in the non-competitive War Leagues.  
  ^ a b Figures include goals in the domestic league, FA Cup, EFL Cup, FA Community Shield, European and international competitions, as well as other domestic/continental tournaments and play-offs/test matches.  
  ^ An administrative error meant the club did not enter the FA Cup in 1895.[9]  
  ^ The club withdrew from the FA Cup during the qualifying rounds both in 1890–91 and 1895–96. The reasons for withdrawal are unclear.  
  ^ The Subsidiary Tournament was a round-robin competition played following the completion of league fixtures.  
  ^ The 1939–40 English football season was abandoned in early September after only three matches had been played, and all results were later annulled due to the onset of the Second World War.  
  ^ Unplaced. 18 matches or more were required for a team to be placed.  
  ^ The FA Cup was contested in 1945–46 but the Football League did not resume until the following season.  
  ^ Manchester City became the first English men's side to win all four senior domestic competitions in a single season.  
  ^ Manchester City became only the second-ever English men's side to win the continental treble.  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  Baskcomb, Julian, ed. (1997). Manchester City F.C. Official Handbook 1997–98. Leicester: Polar.  
  Richard Rundle. "Manchester City". Football Club History Database. Retrieved 26 May 2007.  
  ^ "Complete playing record". Retrieved 24 March 2011. Excludes wartime matches and the abandoned 1939–40 season.  
  NewsLiverpool FC and Manchester United Foundations join forces to educate on tragedy chanting  
  The Foundations of Liverpool FC and Manchester United have come together to deliver an education programme on the impact of tragedy-related abuse and why it must stop.  
  In the lead-up to the Premier League fixture between the sides at Old Trafford on Sunday April 7, the two Foundations invited schoolchildren from Liverpool and Manchester to Lord Derby School in Huyton for an afternoon of learning about the tragic histories of two great football clubs.  
  Phil Thompson and Wes Brown – who won 12 league titles and five European Cups between them for the Reds and United respectively – joined the session in Huyton and spoke with students about the huge impact the Hillsborough and Munich disasters had on the two clubs, their fans and the cities.  
  The two Foundations are developing the programme in partnership with the Premier League and plan to make it an annual part of their engagement with tens of thousands of young people across the Merseyside and Greater Manchester regions.  
  Liverpool and United have been at the forefront of the Premier League’s campaign against tragedy-related abuse, with managers Jürgen Klopp and Erik ten Hag last season issuing a joint statement calling for an end to chanting about Hillsborough, Heysel and Munich.  
  In addition to measures to educate fans, both clubs are committed to action against those found to have committed tragedy-related abuse, whether in stadiums or online. Club bans have been imposed on several fans following the recent Emirates FA Cup quarter-final at Old Trafford and tragedy chanting is also liable to criminal prosecution.  
  Matt Parish, CEO of LFC Foundation, said: “This is a hugely important event which both clubs are committed to making happen every year. Our two proud Foundations coming together to show young people, and all others, how we stand united against tragedy chanting is a very powerful message.  
  “Education is key, alongside appropriate action, to eradicating vile tragedy chanting in all its forms forever, and we’re delighted to be able to do our bit to help.”  
  John Shiels, CEO of Manchester United Foundation, added: “It is unacceptable to use the loss of life, in relation to any tragedy, to score points, and it is time for it to stop.  
  “We are proud to come together with LFC Foundation as we believe education will break the generational cycle on this issue and help thousands of young people across this region understand the impact tragedy-related abuse has.”  
  The education programme was also supported – in personal capacities – by Liverpool City Region Mayor Steve Rotheram and Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham.  
  FoundationNews  
  LFC FoundationLiverpool FC and Manchester United Foundations join forces to provide education on impact of tragedy chanting  
  The Foundations of Liverpool FC and Manchester United have come together to deliver an education programme on the impact of tragedy-related abuse and why it must stop.  
  In the lead up to the Premier League fixture between the sides at Old Trafford on April 7, the two Foundations invited schoolchildren from Manchester and Liverpool to Lord Derby School in Huyton for an afternoon learning about the tragic histories of the two great football clubs.  
  Phil Thompson and Wes Brown – who won 12 league titles and five European Cups between them for Liverpool and United, respectively – joined the session and spoke with students about the huge impact the Hillsborough and Munich disasters had on the two clubs, their fans, and the cities.  
  The two Foundations are developing the programme in partnership with the Premier League and plan to make it an annual part of their engagement with tens of thousands of young people across the Greater Manchester and Merseyside regions.  
  Liverpool and United have been at the forefront of the Premier League’s campaign against tragedy-related abuse, with managers Jurgen Klopp and Erik ten Hag last season issuing a joint statement calling for an end to chanting about Hillsborough, Heysel and Munich.  
  In addition to measures to educate fans, both clubs are committed to action against those found to have committed tragedy-related abuse, whether in stadiums or online. Club bans have been imposed on several fans following the recent FA Cup clash between United and Liverpool at Old Trafford and tragedy chanting is also liable to criminal prosecution.  
  Matt Parish, CEO of LFC Foundation, said: “This is a hugely important event which both clubs are committed to making happen every year. Our two proud Foundations coming together to show young people, and all others, how we stand united against tragedy chanting is a very powerful message. Education is key, alongside appropriate action, to eradicating vile tragedy chanting in all its forms forever, and we’re delighted to be able do our bit to help.”  
  John Shiels, CEO of Manchester United Foundation, added: “It is unacceptable to use the loss of life, in relation to any tragedy, to score points, and it is time for it to stop. We are proud to come together with LFC Foundation as we believe education will break the generational cycle on this issue and help thousands of young people across this region understand the impact tragedy-related abuse has.”  
  Manchester City  
  Follow Manchester CityFollowing  
  Follow Manchester City  
  close panel  
  You are now following Manchester City  
  Latest updates from your Sport topics will appear in My Sport in the BBC Sport App and in a collection on the BBC homepage.  
  Match-by-match projections in the title racepublished at 17:55  
  17:55  
  Manchester City are in typically formidable post-Christmas form as they aim for an English top-flight record of four consecutive titles. They have 10 wins from 13 league games since December's 1-0 defeat by Aston Villa.  
  As for Liverpool, the 3-1 loss at Arsenal on 4 February remains their only league defeat in nine games so far in 2024. Jurgen Klopp's team still have a trip to Goodison Park for the Merseyside derby to fit into a busy schedule.  
  On Arsenal, although are top of the table, Simon Gleave, head of analysis at Nielsen's Gracenote says their Euro Club Index simulations have the title battle as a "two-horse race", rating City and Liverpool higher as well as the Gunners having "trickier" fixtures.  
  He said: "Arsenal have six matches left against teams in the Premier League's top half but five of those are away from home. Manchester City and Liverpool also both have six matches remaining against teams in the top half of the Premier League, but four of City's are at home and half of Liverpool's are."  
  Man City v Arsenal: Pick of the statspublished at 16:08  
  16:08  
  Here are the key statistics before Manchester City host Arsenal on Sunday.  
  Manchester City have won 12 of their past 13 Premier League games against Arsenal, though the exception was a 1-0 loss at the Emirates in the reverse fixture this season.  
  Following their win at Emirates Stadium in October, the Gunners are looking to complete their first Premier League double over Manchester City since 2007-08.  
  However, Arsenal have lost each of their past seven league away games against City.  
  Pep Guardiola's side are unbeaten in their past 38 home games in all competitions, since a 2-1 loss against Brentford in November 2022. It iss their second longest run without defeat at home in their history, after a run of 42 between 1919 and 1921.  
  Arsenal have won their past eight top-flight games, scoring 33 goals and conceding just four. The Gunners have had three runs of nine or more consecutive victories within a single season in the competition, with each one coming during title winning campaigns – 10 in 1997-98, 13 in 2001-02 and nine in 2003-04.  
  Manchester City have scored in each of their past 57 home games in all competitions, their longest such scoring streak in club history.  
  'Great for the dressing room' - Match of the Day: Top 10 on Hamannpublished at 15:32  
  15:32  
  On the latest episode of Match of the Day: Top 10, Alan Shearer and Micah Richards waxed lyrical about German midfielder Dietmar Hamann, who played in the Premier League for Liverpool, as well as with Shearer at Newcastle United and Richards at Manchester City.  
  "We used to call him 'Der Kaiser' at City. What a character he is," said Richards.  
  "When I was a youngster coming through, we used to stay at the Radisson in Manchester. There was a German market and he used to call me to his room.  
  "I was thinking: 'It's a senior pro, he wants to give me some advice.' He says: 'Run to the German market and go and get me some sausages.'  
  "I didn't mind going for 'Der Kaiser'. He is a top, top bloke."  
  Shearer added: "Yeah he was a good player. Great lad. Great for the dressing room.  
  "He didn't mind everyone taking the mick out of him and gave a little bit back. But he was really good fun.  
  'We have the psychological edge'published at 10:50  
  10:50  
  Ten games, three teams and one trophy - but who will lift it?  
  Manchester City are pushing for an unprecedented fourth consecutive Premier League trophy but in their way are Arsenal and Liverpool.  
  Mikel Arteta's side are the visitors to Etihad Stadium on Sunday for a game that could go a long way to deciding who wins the title.  
  BBC Radio Manchester's Natalie Pike is "confident" City will get the right result and leapfrog Mikel Arteta's side in the table.  
  "We have the psychological edge over them from when we beat them three times last season," she told the We're Not Really Here podcast.  
  "There is a good chance that we go back into this game from the international break and we click and we look like the team from last season."  
  City are currently third, just one point behind their title rivals who both have 64 points.  
  "I think we are going to win every game that is left in the league," added The Wanted's Max George. "I am just hoping that Liverpool don't!"  
  Jurgen Klopp's men start their run-in by hosting Brighton at Anfield on Sunday, but BBC Radio Manchester's Mike Minay says it is not them who City should be most worried about.  
  "Arsenal do not get involved in this conversation around the title race half as much as Liverpool, yet I think they are here to stay," he said. "Saying that, they have a very difficult run-in."  
  Gossip: Barcelona eye Haalandpublished at 07:42  
  07:42  
  Erling Haaland has emerged as a transfer target for Barcelona in the summer of 2025. The 23-year-old's agent, Rafaela Pimenta, met with the La Liga club's sports director, Deco, last month. (Mundo Deportivo - in Spanish), external  
  'Having Arsenal at home is a massive bonus'published at 13:49 26 March  
  13:49 26 March  
  If Manchester City are to win their fourth consecutive Premier League title, is every game now a must-win?  
  BBC Radio Manchester's Mike Minay and Natalie Pike look at the remaining fixtures and how other clubs like Tottenham could play a huge part in who lifts the trophy.  
  The three things Man City need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 09:47 26 March  
  09:47 26 March  
  Nigel Rothband Fan writer  
  There are a number of crucial games on the horizon for Manchester City if they are to secure unprecedented back-to-back Trebles.  
  If they want to continue the incredible success under Pep Guardiola, there are three things that need to happen:  
  Control games  
  Get back to our focus on controlling games, rather than the more 'destructive' approach we took at the start of the season.  
  Jack Grealish coming back will be a good start, but there are games where we will need to sacrifice one of our attacking players for Mateo Kovacic in order to get the balance right.  
  Lock down next season's transfer targets early  
  It felt like we were caught on the back foot with some of our business last year.  
  It is not clear Ilkay Gundogan has been adequately replaced and if Bernardo Silva is leaving, this is going to be key.  
  Live the cliche  
  Super focus on one game at a time, and that starts with the small matter of Arsenal at Etihad Stadium on Sunday.  
  What are Man City's options with Walker's role?published at 08:33 26 March  
  08:33 26 March  
  The Wanted singer and Manchester City fan Max George is "worried" about Kyle Walker's injury after the full-back left England's friendly with Brazil on Saturday holding his hamstring.  
  He added Walker's absence would be "a big loss" for the run-in, but does have faith in Manuel Akanji, who is likely to step into the right-back role.  
  BBC Radio Manchester commentator Mike Minay is more optimistic and says he has his "fingers crossed" Walker will be fit for Saturday's title showdown.  
  Gossip: Haaland wants to impress Real Madrid published at 08:03 26 March  
  08:03 26 March  
  Norway striker Erling Haaland, 23, is viewing Manchester City's Champions League quarter-final with Real Madrid as an opportunity to prove his credentials for a future move to the Spanish giants. (AS - in Spanish), external  
  Barcelona will seek to extend the loan of Portugal full-back Joao Cancelo, 29, from Manchester City for another year. (Marca - in Spanish), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  'Big game after big game'published at 17:44 25 March  
  17:44 25 March  
  The latest episode of BBC Radio Manchester's We're Not Really Here podcast is available on BBC Sounds.  
  In this week's show, Mike Minay and Natalie Pike are joined by The Wanted singer Max George as they look ahead to a huge clash at the top of the Premier League table between Manchester City and Arsenal at Etihad Stadium.  
  Plus, listeners give their views on season ticket prices at the club.  
  'Complete class act' Foden 'has to start at Euro 2024'published at 16:14 25 March  
  16:14 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and those players on international duty.  
  Paul asked: For about two years I've been having a debate with some friends over Phil Foden. I'm saying he is overrated. He fits perfectly into Manchester City's low-risk, possession-based style of play. His lack of real creativity and ability to beat a defender shone through against Brazil. Would you say he is at the same level as players like Jude Bellingham and Vinicius Junior? Obviously, I wouldn't!  
  Phil replied: Not sure he is quite at the level of Bellingham and Vinicius, but he is not far behind.  
  Foden is a complete class act. He has to start for England at Euro 2024. Overrated? Not in my opinion.  
  The problem is working out how to best utilise him as it looks like he will have to play from wide left at the Euros because the team, quite rightly, is built around Bellingham in that area. He simply could not get involved enough against Brazil and that is a conundrum for Gareth Southgate and Foden to solve.  
  And I can't believe you think he lacks real creativity and ability to beat a defender. We see it pretty much every week for Manchester City.  
  'Not killing teams off' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:00 25 March  
  13:00 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Ian: Not killing teams off when we have the chance. We used to blow teams away at home. We could easily lose the title on goal difference.  
  Steve: Too many dropped points. Not killing off games. Conceding far too many. Not being able to beat an inconsistent and bang average Chelsea team twice! Those two results alone could be costly come the end of season.  
  Mark: I never thought I would say this but I strongly believe Ederson has had the worst season he's had with us. Ortega should be given the number one spot to help motivate Ederson to be the keeper he can be.  
  Mike: The huge clouds hanging over City's heads - all 115 of them. Most fans want an answer to this ASAP.  
  Jez: I've noticed this season when we get to the final third some players are passing backwards despite getting in excellent positions, instead of finding a through ball to a player making a clever run. This destroys all of the momentum that's just been built up. Very frustrating!  
  Foden 'suffers when he plays wide for England'published at 09:22 25 March  
  09:22 25 March  
  French football journalist Julien Laurens, says England did not use Manchester City midfielder Phil Foden enough against Brazil and it is something Gareth Southgate has to work on before this summer's European Championship.  
  The 23-year-old, who started on the right-hand-side in the absence of Arsenal's Bukayo Saka, did not make one touch in the opposition box.  
  "He is one of the most in-form players in the Premier League, yet he does not even touch the ball in the Brazilian box," said Laurens on BBC Radio 5 Live's Football Daily podcast.  
  "I just expected more than what we saw. I was questioning England's ideas, structure and movement because, collectively, if you cannot put Foden in a position of influencing the game then you are missing a big thing.  
  "If you want to win those kind of games then your key players have to be involved where it matters the most."  
  Reflecting on how Foden can be deployed by Southgate, former Scotland international James McFadden added: "He can play in a wide position and he has done for Manchester City, but the way they play he still has the freedom to cut inside if he starts wide, because there is always someone who moves into that position to allow him to do so.  
  "He suffers when he plays wide for England because he wants to link up but there is no space."  
  Gossip: City eye Everton's Branthwaitepublished at 07:52 25 March  
  07:52 25 March  
  Manchester City are keeping track of developments concerning Everton centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite, with Manchester United, Tottenham and Real Madrid also interested in the 21-year-old. (Mail), external  
  City, Liverpool and Chelsea have all been given a boost in their pursuit of Newcastle United midfielder Bruno Guimaraes, with the 26-year-old Brazil playmaker admitting he has "other goals". (Team Talk), external  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  Gossip: Man City join race for Rodrygopublished at 08:20 22 March  
  08:20 22 March  
  Manchester City, Arsenal, Liverpooland Manchester United are all keen on Real Madrid's Brazil forward Rodrygo, 23, and the Spanish giants could be persuaded to negotiate if they receive an offer of £85m-plus. (Sport - in Spanish)  
  What's your biggest gripe been this season?published at 12:59 20 March  
  12:59 20 March  
  As we approach the business end, we want to know the most irritating thing at your club this season.  
  Has it been a player failing to deliver, injury woes, inconsistent form... or something else?  
  More from Football  
  Manchester City Women defender and former England captain Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season.  
  John Stones, Kyle Walker, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are among the key players in a race to be fit for the big Super Sunday showdown between Man City and Arsenal.  
  Man City are facing a defensive injury crisis ahead of Sunday's huge game with Arsenal after John Stones joined Kyle Walker and Manuel Akanji in picking up an injury.  
  Kyle Walker is expected to recover from injury in time for Man City's huge match against title rivals Arsenal on Sunday - live on Sky Sports.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  Ex-Man City chairman David Bernstein has urged the PL to “get a move on” regarding a conclusion to the club’s alleged breaches of financial rules.  
  The FA Cup semi-finals schedule has been revealed with Man City and their opponents Chelsea, plus Man Utd and Coventry, finding out when they'll meet at Wembley...  
  Ahead of what could be their final game against each other, we examine how the rivalry between Jurgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola has shaped their teams - and their careers.  
  Savio has been the breakthrough star in La Liga with Girona but why is he so good and what could he bring to Manchester City? We take a look...  
  One of the secrets of Pep Guardiola's success is his willingness to let unhappy players move on. In this exclusive interview with Sky Sports, he explains why he does it.  
  With exclusive insight from Pep Guardiola, Adam Bate assesses what makes Rodri so good after the Man City midfielder took it upon himself to extend his unbeaten record.  
  Manchester City  
  Read the latest Manchester City news, transfer rumours, match reports, fixtures and live scores from the Guardian  
  Letters: Readers respond an article by Jonathan Liew about those who make a distinction between between ‘true fans’ and ‘plastics’  
  The title is still up for grabs as the big three enter final turn and the last of the meetings between the contenders will be vital  
  Erling Haaland has limped out of training while on international duty with Norway  
  Marcus Rashford rises to the occasion, Stefan Ortega impresses and more VAR woe for West Ham  
  Manchester City’s Champions League defence will continue with a tie against the 14-time winners Real Madrid, while Arsenal will face Bayern Munich  
  Akanji said Liverpool’s right-back stating that trophies ‘mean more’ to them did not affect him or his City teammates  
  Manchester City goalkeeper Ederson has been ruled out for up to four weeks with a thigh injury he picked up in the draw at Liverpool  
  The worst aspect of VAR is the way it has persuaded fans and pundits there can be absolute clarity over every decision  
  Liverpool youngster handles Haaland, Thomas Frank should face a kinder ride and another Luton fairytale  
  Alexis Mac Allister looked the part in Liverpool’s midfield while John Stones excelled for Manchester City  
  The Liverpool manager was aggrieved after Jérémy Doku’s late challenge, while Pep Guardiola said the second-half pressure they faced was a ‘tsunami’  
  The Liverpool winger could not tear himself away from the spectacle after Manchester City had dominated the first half at Anfield  
  From Kevin De Bruyne’s magic to Kai Havertz’s tumble, we hand out honors (and dishonors) from the top-flight weekend  
  Manchester City FC  
  British football club  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Please select which sections you would like to print:  
  Table Of Contents  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Manchester City FC, English men’s professional football (soccer) club based in Manchester. Manchester City achieved consistent top-division success and claimed multiple titles after Sheikh Mansour ibn Zayed Al Nahyan purchased a controlling share in the club in 2008.  
  Founding and early history  
  Manchester City traces its history to a football team founded in 1880 by members of St. Mark’s Church in Manchester. That team became Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 and Manchester City Football Club (FC) in 1894. From 1894 to 2008 the club moved among the upper tiers of English football, regularly suffering relegation and winning promotion. It was champion of football’s second tier seven times, and it won the Football League First Division championship twice (in the 1936–37 and 1967–68 seasons). Manchester City also won the Football Association Challenge Cup (FA Cup) four times (1903–04, 1933–34, 1955–56, and 1968–69), the English League Cup twice (1969–70 and 1975–76), and the European Cup Winners’ Cup once (1969–70). Notable players from this era include Bert Trautmann, who was goalkeeper for Manchester City from 1949 to 1964, and midfielders Alan Oakes (played 1959–76) and Colin Bell (played 1966–79).  
  After winning back-to-back promotions following the 1998–99 and 1999–2000 seasons that enabled the club to ascend to English football’s top-tier English Premier League, Manchester City was once again relegated to the sport’s second tier after their lacklustre 2000–01 season. The club returned to the Premier League in 2002, however, and has remained there. In 2003 Manchester City moved from Maine Road, the stadium where it had played since 1923, to the City of Manchester Stadium (later also called Etihad Stadium).  
  2008 financial takeover  
  The Abu Dhabi United Group, owned by Sheikh Mansour ibn Zayed Al Nahyan, purchased a controlling stake in Manchester City FC in 2008 from Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister of Thailand who had bought into the club in 2007. Mansour, a senior member of Abu Dhabi’s ruling family and one of the foremost businessmen of the United Arab Emirates, invested heavily, and the team’s performance soon improved. Manchester City won the FA Cup in 2011, its first major trophy since Mansour’s takeover. On the last day of the 2011–12 Premier League season, the team snatched the league title away from Manchester United on goal difference with the help of a stoppage time goal by Sergio Agüero against Queens Park Rangers FC. They won the Premier League again in 2013–14 and the English League Cup in 2013–14 and 2015–16.  
  After the appointment of manager Pep Guardiola in 2016, Manchester City expanded on their success. After a trophyless first season, the club set the all-time Premier League points record with 100 points as well as single-season Premier League records for goals scored and goal differential, among others, during their title-winning 2017–18 season. They repeated in 2018–19 and won the Premier League title again in 2020–21 and 2021–22. Manchester City won the FA Cup in 2018–19. The club was also the League Cup winner in 2017–18, 2018–19, 2019–20, and 2020–21. Manchester City reached the Champions League Final for the first time in its history during the 2020–21 season, though they lost to Chelsea FC; the club won the Champions League title in 2022–23. In 2021 Manchester City was the first club to withdraw from a controversial plan to form a new European Super League. Notable players who joined Manchester City in 2008 and afterward are centre back Vincent Kompany, midfielders Yaya Touré, David Silva, and Kevin De Bruyne, and forward Sergio Agüero.  
  The Manchester City Women’s Football Club was founded in 1988. Affiliated with Manchester United FC from its creation, the women’s team formalized its partnership with the men’s team in 2012 and entered the Women’s Super League in 2013.  
  Get a Britannica Premium subscription and gain access to exclusive content. Subscribe Now  
  "Manchester City" and "Man City" redirect here. For the city itself, see Manchester. For the television show episode, see Man City (Ted Lasso).  
  Manchester City  
  Full name  
  Manchester City Football Club  
  The club joined the Football League in 1892, and won their first major honour, the FA Cup, in 1904. Manchester City had its first major period of success in the late 1960s and early 1970s, winning the league title, FA Cup, League Cup, and European Cup Winners Cup under the management of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison. After losing the 1981 FA Cup final, Manchester City went through a period of decline, culminating in relegation to the third tier of English football for the only time in their history in 1998. They since regained promotion to the top tier in 2001–02 and have remained a fixture in the Premier League since 2002–03.  
  Manchester City received considerable financial investment both in playing staff and facilities following its takeover by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan through the Abu Dhabi United Group in August 2008.[5] This started a new era of unprecedented success, with the club winning the FA Cup in 2011 and the Premier League in 2012, both their first since the 1960s, followed by another league title in 2014. Under the management of Pep Guardiola, Manchester City won the Premier League in 2018, becoming the only team in the competition history to attain 100 points in a single season. In 2018–19, they won four trophies, completing an unprecedented sweep of all domestic titles in England and becoming the first English men's team to win the domestic treble.[6] This was followed by three consecutive Premier League titles in 2020–21, 2021–22, and 2022–23, as well as the club's first-ever Champions League final in 2021, which they lost to Chelsea. The 2022–23 season saw Manchester City win their maiden European Cup and complete the continental treble in the process, becoming the second English club to do so.[7] The club is ranked first in the UEFA coefficient standings as of 2023.[8]  
  History  
  Early years and first trophies  
  City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division. They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904, beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup; the Blues narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the league campaign, but they still became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour.[15] In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith, who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United.[16] A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side.[17]  
  In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933, before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934.[18] During the 1934 run, the club broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth-round FA Cup tie against Stoke City – a record which stood until 2016.[19][20] The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division.[21] Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United, and won the second. The 1956 final, in which the Blues defeated Birmingham City 3–1, saw City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck.[22]  
  First golden era and subsequent decline  
  After being relegated to the Second Division in 1963, the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965.[23] In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, Manchester City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell.[24] Two seasons later, in 1967–68, City claimed the league championship for the second time, beating their close neighbours Manchester United to the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 victory at Newcastle United.[25] Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969 and a year later triumphed in the European Cup Winners' Cup, defeating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in the 1970 final. This was the club's only European honour until their triumph in the 2022–23 UEFA Champions League.[26] The Blues also won the League Cup that year, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season.  
  The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup.[27] One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals.[28][29] The final trophy of the club's most successful period of the 20th century was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final.  
  A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on several unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley.[30] A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond, City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur. The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 and finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of Peter Reid.[31] However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992, but after finishing ninth in its first season they endured three years of struggle before being relegated in 1996. After two seasons in the First Division,[a] City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third-tier league after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany.  
  Recovery and two takeovers  
  After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline.[32] Under manager Joe Royle, City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in the Second Division play-off final against Gillingham.[33] A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan replaced Royle as manager in the close season, and achieved an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 First Division championship, breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a single season in the process.[34] The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a 13-year run without a derby win.[35] Additionally, City qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years via UEFA fair play ranking. In the close 2003–04 season, the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium. The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first foreign manager when appointed in 2007.[36] After a bright start, performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked on 2 June 2008;[37] he was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later.[38]  
  By 2008, Manchester City were in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club the year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen.[39] Then, in August 2008, City were purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group. The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million.[40] There was not a huge improvement in performance compared to the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth, although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup. During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry, Roque Santa Cruz, Kolo Touré, Emmanuel Adebayor, Carlos Tevez, and Joleon Lescott.[41] In December 2009, Mark Hughes – who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board – was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini.[42] City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League, narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League but qualifying for the UEFA Europa League.[43]  
  Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola  
  Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. City reached the FA Cup final in 2011, their first major final in over 30 years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-finals,[44] the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. The Blues defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup and the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. On the last day of the 2010–11 season, City beat out Arsenal for the third place, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage.[45]  
  Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season, including a 5–1 victory over Tottenham at White Hart Lane and a record-equalling 6–1 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford, but a poor run of form in the second half of the season left City in second place, eight points behind United with only six games left to play. At this point, United suffered their own loss of form, dropping eight points in the space of four games, while City began a run of successive wins which saw both teams level on points with two games to go. Despite the Blues only needing a home win against Queens Park Rangers, a team in the relegation zone, they fell 1–2 behind by the end of normal time. However, two goals in injury time – the second by Sergio Agüero in the fourth added minute – settled the title in City's favour, making them the first team to win the Premier League on goal difference alone.[46]  
  Pep Guardiola, former head coach of Barcelona and Bayern Munich, was confirmed to become Manchester City's new manager on 1 February 2016,[53] with the announcement having been made several months before Manuel Pellegrini left his position. Guardiola's first season in Manchester would end trophyless, with the Blues placing third in the league standings,[54] but the following season proved far more successful, as City won the Premier League title with the highest points total in history and broke numerous other club and English league records along the way.[55]  
  This would prove to be the start of a period of unprecedented success for Manchester City under Guardiola. Between the 2017–18 and 2022–23 Premier League seasons, City won five out of possible six league titles, only finishing second behind Liverpool in the 2019–20 season.[56] Guardiola also guided the Blues to silverware in domestic cup competitions, highlighted by four consecutive League Cup triumphs in 2018–2021.[57] During the 2018–19 season, City completed an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles.[58] Apart from winning all three of the major English football tournaments, they also won the Community Shield, the first time any team has ever held all four of England's primary football trophies at the same time.[59] On the continental stage, the club achieved breakthrough in 2020–21, reaching their first-ever Champions League final.[60] In an all-English affair, City lost 0–1 to Chelsea at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto.[61]  
  The 2022–23 season turned out to be the greatest in the club's history, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and their maiden Champions League title at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul against Inter Milan, thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble. The road to the Champions League victory included wins over European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate,[62] and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City.[63][64][65]  
  Manchester City's era of sustained competitive excellence coincided with charges of breaching Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations. In 2020, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) ruled that sanctions placed on the club by UEFA were not justified, overturning City's two-year European ban.[66] In 2023, the Premier League announced its own investigation of the allegations levied against Manchester City, charging the club with 115 breaches of its FFP rules up to the 2017–18 season.[67]  
  L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system; L3 = Level 3 of the football league system.  
  Club badge and colours  
  Manchester City's home colours are sky blue and white. Traditional away kit colours have been either maroon or (from the 1960s) red and black; however, in recent years several colours have been used. The origins of the club's home colours are unclear, but there is evidence that the club has worn blue since 1892 or earlier. A booklet entitled Famous Football Clubs – Manchester City published in the 1940s indicates that West Gorton (St. Marks) originally played in scarlet and black, and reports dating from 1884 describe the team wearing black jerseys bearing a white cross, showing the club's origins as a church side.[68] The infrequent yet recurrent use of red and black away colours comes from former assistant manager Malcolm Allison's belief that adopting the colours of AC Milan would inspire City to glory.[69] Allison's theory seemingly took effect, with City winning the 1969 FA Cup final, 1970 League Cup final, and 1970 Cup Winners' Cup final in red and black stripes as opposed to the club's home kit of sky blue.  
  City had previously worn three other badges on their shirts, prior to their current badge being implemented in 2016. The first, introduced in 1970, was based on designs which had been used on official club documentation since the mid-1960s. It consisted of a circular badge which used the same shield as the present badge (including a ship, based on the City of Manchester coat of arms), inside a circle bearing the name of the club. In 1972, this was replaced by a variation which replaced the lower half of the shield with the red rose of Lancashire. In 1976, a heraldic badge was granted by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by City. The badge consisted of the familiar ship above a red rose but on a circular device instead of a shield (blazoned as "A roundel per fess azure and argent in chief a three masted ship sails set pennons flying or in base a rose gules barbed and seeded proper").[70]  
  On occasions when Manchester City played in a major cup final, the club wore shirts bearing the City of Manchester coat of arms, as a symbol of pride in representing the city at a major event. This practice originated from a time when the players' shirts did not normally bear a badge of any kind.[71] The club has since abandoned the practice; for the 2011 FA Cup final, its first in the 21st century, City used the usual badge with a special legend, but the Manchester coat of arms was included as a small monochrome logo in the numbers on the back of players' shirts.[72]  
  A new club badge was adopted in 1997, as a result of the previous badge being ineligible for registration as a trademark. This badge was based on the arms of the city of Manchester, and consisted of a shield in front of a golden eagle. The eagle is an old heraldic symbol of the city of Manchester; a golden eagle was added to the city's badge in 1958 (but had since been removed), representing the growing aviation industry. The shield featured a ship on its upper half representing the Manchester Ship Canal, and three diagonal stripes in the lower half symbolised the city's three rivers – the Irwell, the Irk and the Medlock. The bottom of the badge bore the motto "Superbia in Proelio", which translates as "Pride in Battle" in Latin. Above the eagle and shield were the three stars, added for decorative purposes.  
  On 15 October 2015, following years of criticism from the fans over the design of the 1997 badge,[73] the club announced they intended to carry out a fan consultation on whether to discontinue the current badge and institute a new design.[73] After the consultation, the club announced in late November 2015 the badge would be replaced in due course by a new version which would be designed in the style of the older, circular variants.[74] A design purporting to be the new badge was unintentionally leaked two days early prior to the official unveiling on 26 December 2015 by the IPO when the design was trademarked on 22 December.[75] The new badge was officially unveiled at Manchester City's home match against Sunderland on 26 December.[76]  
  Players  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  EDS and Academy  
  The following players have previously made appearances or have appeared on the substitutes bench for the first team.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Player of the Year  
  Each season since the end of the 1966–67 season, the members of the Manchester City Official Supporters Club have voted by ballot to choose the player on the team they feel is the most worthy of recognition for his performances during that season. The following table lists the recipients of this award since 2000.  
  Halls of Fame  
  Manchester City Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Manchester City F.C. Hall of Fame, and are listed according to the year of their induction:  
  National Football Museum Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the National Football Museum Hall of Fame), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories:  
  Player  
  Position  
  Premier League Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester players have been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame. Inaugurated in 2020, but delayed for a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Hall of Fame is intended to recognise and honour players that have achieved great success and made a significant contribution to the league since its founding in 1992.  
  Player  
  Position  
  Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories:  
  Welsh Sports Hall of Fame  
  The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame, and are listed according to the year of their induction:  
  Notable managers  
  Manchester City managers to have won major honours. Table correct as of 16 March 2024[b]  
  Supporters  
  Since moving to the City of Manchester Stadium, the club's average attendances have been in the top six in England,[119][120] usually in excess of 40,000. Even in the late 1990s, when City were relegated twice in three seasons and playing in the third tier of English football (then the Second Division, now the EFL League One), home attendances were in the region of 30,000, compared to an average of fewer than 8,000 for the division.[121] Research carried out by Manchester City in 2005 estimated a fanbase of 886,000 in the United Kingdom and a total in excess of 2 million worldwide, although since the purchase of the club by Sheikh Mansour, and City's recent achievements, that figure has since ballooned to many times that size.[122]  
  Manchester City's officially recognised supporters club is the Manchester City F.C. Supporters Club (1949), formed by a merger of two existing organisations in 2010: the Official Supporters Club (OSC) and the Centenary Supporters Association (CSA).[123] City fans' song of choice is a rendition of "Blue Moon", which despite its melancholic theme is belted out with gusto as though it were a heroic anthem. City supporters tend to believe that unpredictability is an inherent trait of their team, and label unexpected results "typical City".[124][125] Events that fans regard as "typical City" include the club being the only reigning English champions ever to be relegated (in 1938), the only team to score and concede over 100 goals in the same season (1957–58),[126] or the more recent example where Manchester City were the only team to beat Chelsea in the latter's record-breaking 2004–05 Premier League season, yet in the same season City were knocked out of the FA Cup by Oldham Athletic, a team two divisions lower.  
  In the late 1980s, City fans started a craze of bringing inflatable objects to matches, primarily oversized bananas. One disputed explanation for the phenomenon is that in a match against West Bromwich Albion, chants from fans calling for the introduction of Imre Varadi as a substitute mutated into "Imre Banana". Terraces packed with inflatable-waving supporters became a frequent sight in the 1988–89 season, as the craze spread to other clubs (inflatable fish were seen at Grimsby Town), with the craze reaching its peak at City's match at Stoke City on 26 December 1988, a game declared by fanzines as a fancy dress party.[127] In 2010, Manchester City supporters adopted an exuberant dance, dubbed The Poznań, from fans of Polish club Lech Poznań that they played in the Europa League.[128] In 2022, Manchester City proposed the release of the Connected Scarf, that would contain a sensor tracking physiological and emotional data of the wearer, for supporters in 2023.[129]  
  Rivalries  
  Manchester City's biggest rivalry is with neighbours Manchester United, against whom they contest the Manchester derby. Before the Second World War, when travel to away games was rare, many Mancunian football fans regularly watched both teams even if considering themselves "supporters" of only one. This practice continued into the early 1960s but as travel became easier, and the cost of entry to matches rose, watching both teams became unusual and the rivalry intensified. A common stereotype is that City fans come from Manchester proper, while United fans come from elsewhere. A 2002 report by a researcher at Manchester Metropolitan University found that while it was true that a higher proportion of City season ticket holders came from Manchester postcode areas (40% compared to United's 29%), there were more United season ticket holders, the lower percentage being due to United's higher overall number of season ticket holders (27,667 compared to City's 16,481). The report noted that since the compiling of data in 2001, the number of both City and United season ticket holders had risen; expansion of United's ground and City's move to the City of Manchester Stadium have caused season ticket sales to increase further.[130]  
  Over the last few years, Manchester City has also developed a notable rivalry with Liverpool,[131] currently considered one of the biggest in association football.[132][133] Though the two clubs had been involved in a title race in the 1976–77 season, Liverpool and City's modern rivalry began in the 2010s, with the Blues beating Liverpool to the 2013–14 title by just two points on the final day of the season.[134] In the final of the 2015–16 League Cup, City defeated Liverpool on penalties after a 1–1 draw. The two clubs met in European competition for the first time in the 2017–18 Champions League quarter-finals, where Liverpool won 5–1 on aggregate, ultimately reaching the final and then winning the competition a year later.[135][136] In the 2018–19 season, City again won the title on the final day, with the Blues' 98 points and Liverpool's 97 being the third- and fourth-highest Premier League points totals ever.[137] The following season, Liverpool clinched the title, recording 99 points (the second-highest Premier League total ever after Manchester City's 100 in 2017–18) to finish 18 points above runners-up City. The Blues then regained the title in 2020–21 and outgunned Liverpool in another closely-fought title race in 2021–22, to finish with 93 points to Liverpool's 92.  
  The success of the two teams in the 2010s and 2020s has led to the development of a rivalry between Jürgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola, the managers of Liverpool and Manchester City, with the two previously having been the respective managers of Der Klassiker rivals Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga.[138] At the end of the 2018–19 season, Guardiola described his relationship with Klopp as a "beautiful rivalry" and called Klopp's Liverpool team "the strongest opponents I have faced in my career as a manager".[139][140] In September 2019, Klopp hailed Guardiola for being his 'greatest rival ever', after both were nominated for the FIFA Men's Coach of the Year award in 2019, which Klopp ultimately won.[141][142] In a 2019 survey, City fans answered that Liverpool, and not Manchester United, are the club's biggest rivals.[143]  
  Ownership and finances  
  The holding company of Manchester City F.C., Manchester City Limited, is a private limited company, with approximately 54 million shares in issue. The club has been in private hands since 2007, when the major shareholders agreed to sell their holdings to UK Sports Investments Limited (UKSIL), a company controlled by former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra. UKSIL then made a formal offer to buy the shares held by several thousands of small shareholders.  
  Prior to the Thaksin takeover, the club was listed on the specialist independent equity market PLUS (formerly OFEX),[146] where it had been listed since 1995. On 6 July 2007, having acquired 75% of the shares, Thaksin de-listed the club and re-registered it as a private company.[147] By August, UKSIL had acquired over 90% of the shares and exercised its rights under the Companies Act to "squeeze out" the remaining shareholders, and acquire the entire shareholding. Thaksin Shinawatra became chairman of the club and two of Thaksin's children, Pintongta and Oak Chinnawat became directors. Former chairman John Wardle stayed on the board for a year, but resigned in July 2008 following Nike executive Garry Cook's appointment as executive chairman in May.[148] The club made a pre-tax loss of £11m in the fiscal year ending 31 May 2007, the final year for which the club published accounts as a public company.[149]  
  Thaksin's purchase prompted a period of transfer spending at the club,[150] in total around £30 million,[151] whereas over the several previous seasons Manchester City's net spending had been among the lowest in the Premier League. A year later, this investment was dwarfed by an influx of money derived from the club's takeover. On 1 September 2008, Abu Dhabi-based Abu Dhabi United Group Investment and Development Limited completed the takeover of Manchester City. The deal, worth a reported £200 million, was announced on the morning of 1 September. It sparked various transfer "deadline-day" rumours and bids such as the club's attempt to gazump Manchester United's protracted bid to sign Dimitar Berbatov from Tottenham Hotspur for a fee in excess of £30 million.[152][153] Minutes before the transfer window closed, the club signed Robinho from Real Madrid for a British record transfer fee of £32.5 million.[154] The wealth of the new owners meant that, in the summer of 2009, City were able to finance the purchase of experienced international players prior to the new season, spending more than any other club in the Premier League.[155]  
  City Football Group  
  Created in the 2013–14 season to manage the global footballing interests of the Abu Dhabi United Group, City Football Group (CFG) is an umbrella corporation owning stakes in a network of global clubs for the purposes of resource sharing, academy networking and marketing.  
  CFG ownership  
  Listed in order of acquisition/foundation. Bold indicates the club was founded by CFG. * indicates the club was acquired by CFG. § indicates the club is co-owned.  
  On 23 January 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Australian rugby league franchise Melbourne Storm, purchasing a majority stake in A-League team Melbourne City FC. On 5 August 2015, CFG bought out the Storm and acquired full ownership of the team.[157]  
  On 20 May 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Japanese Automotive company Nissan to become a minority shareholder in Yokohama based J-League side, Yokohama F. Marinos.  
  On 5 April 2017, CFG confirmed the purchase of Uruguayan second division team Montevideo City Torque.  
  On 23 August 2017, it was announced that CFG had acquired 44.3% of Segunda División (second tier) side Girona FC. Another 44.3% was held by the Girona Football Group, led by Pere Guardiola, brother of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola.  
  On 20 February 2019, it was announced that CFG as well as UBTECH and China Sports Capital had acquired Sichuan Jiuniu F.C.  
  CFG was announced as majority stakeholder of Mumbai City FC on Thursday 28 November 2019 after acquiring 65% of the club. Mumbai City is the professional football club based in Mumbai, competing in the Indian Super League.  
  CFG was announced as a majority stakeholder of Lommel S.K. on Monday 11 May 2020, acquiring the majority (unspecified) of the club's shares. Lommel S.K. is a professional football club based in Lommel, competing in the Belgian First Division B (second tier).  
  On 3 September 2020, CFG announced that they had purchased the shares of Daniel Masoni, the former owner of Ligue 2 (second tier) club Troyes AC, making them the majority shareholder of the French club.  
  On 4 July 2022, Italian Serie B (second tier) club Palermo announced that CFG had acquired an 80% majority stake in their ownership.  
  Partner clubs  
  On 12 January 2021, CFG announced Bolivian club Club Bolívar as its first partner club.  
  On 18 February 2021, CFG announced that French Championnat National 2 (tier 4) club Vannes OC would be its second partner club.  
  Stadium  
  The City of Manchester Stadium in east Manchester, known as the Etihad Stadium since 2011 for sponsorship reasons, is on a 200-year lease from Manchester City Council to Manchester City. It has been the club's home since the end of the 2002–03 season, when City moved from Maine Road.[170] Before moving to the stadium, the club spent in excess of £30 million to convert it to football use: the pitch was lowered, adding another tier of seating around it, and a new North Stand was constructed.[171] The inaugural match at the new stadium was a 2–1 win over Barcelona in a friendly match.[172] A 7,000-seat third tier on the South Stand was completed in time for the start of the 2015–16 football season, increasing the stadium's capacity to 55,097. A North Stand third tier is in development, potentially increasing capacity to around 61,000.[173]  
  After playing home matches at five stadiums between 1880 and 1887, the club settled at Hyde Road Football Stadium, its home for 36 years.[174] A fire destroyed the Main Stand in 1920, and the club moved to the 84,000 capacity Maine Road three years later. Maine Road, nicknamed the "Wembley of the North" by its designers, hosted the largest-ever crowd at an English club ground when 84,569 attended an FA Cup tie against Stoke City on 3 March 1934.[175] Though Maine Road was redeveloped several times over its 80-year lifespan, by 1995 its capacity was restricted to 32,000, prompting the search for a new ground which culminated in the move to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2003; it was renamed the Etihad Stadium in 2011.[176]  
  Honours  
  Based on trophy count, Manchester City are one of the most successful teams in England – their thirty-four major domestic, European and worldwide honours rank them tied for fourth with Chelsea on the list of most decorated sides in England, ahead of Tottenham Hotspur with 26.  
  Three-peats  
  Club records  
  Record league victory – 11–3 vs Lincoln City (23 March 1895, most goals scored); 10–0 vs Darwen (18 February 1899, widest margin of victory)[184]  
  Record FA Cup victory – 12–0 vs Liverpool Stanley (4 October 1890)[185]  
  Record European victory – 7–0 vs Schalke 04, UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (12 March 2019); 7–0 vs RB Leipzig UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (14 March 2023)[186]  
  Record European defeat – 0–4 vs Barcelona, UEFA Champions League group stage (19 October 2016)[187]  
  Highest home attendance – 84,569 vs Stoke City, FA Cup sixth round (3 March 1934)[g][188]  
  Most league appearances – 561 + 3 sub, Alan Oakes, 1958–76[189]  
  Most European appearances – 59 + 16 sub, Fernandinho, 2013–22  
  Most appearances overall – 676 + 4 sub, Alan Oakes, 1958–76[189]  
  ^ The following managers have all won at least one major trophy with Manchester City (totals include competitive matches only). Cup matches won or lost on penalties are classified as draws.[118]  
  ^ Pellegrini's drawn games include one cup match won on penalties.  
  ^ Guardiola's drawn games include six cup matches won and two lost on penalties.  
  ^ City also won the FA Community Shield that season, leading to some term the achievement as the quadruple, although this is incorrect, since the true quadruple includes the three major domestic competitions plus a major European title.  
  ^ By winning the title in 2021, City effectively made it a four-peat.  
  Bibliography  
  Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4.  
  Gardner, Peter (1970). The Manchester City Football Book No. 2. London: Stanley Paul. ISBN 0-09-103280-6.  
  Inglis, Simon (1987). The Football Grounds of Great Britain (2nd ed.). London: Collins Willow. ISBN 0-00-218249-1.  
  James, Gary (2002). Manchester: The Greatest City. Polar Publishing. ISBN 1-899538-09-7.  
  James, Gary (2005). The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame. Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61282-1.  
  James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0.  
  James, Gary (2008). Manchester – A Football History. Halifax: James Ward. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5.  
  Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8.  
  Rowlands, Alan (2005). Trautmann: The Biography. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-491-4.  
  Tossell, David (2008). Big Mal: The High Life and Hard Times of Malcolm Allison, Football Legend. Edinburgh: Mainstream. ISBN 978-1-84596-478-8.  
  Wallace, David (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58. Leigh: King of the Kippax. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1.  
  Ward, Andrew (1984). The Manchester City Story. Derby: Breedon. ISBN 0-907969-05-4.  
  References  
  ^ "Cityzens at Home". ManCity.com. Manchester City FC. Archived from the original on 2 May 2021. Retrieved 31 May 2021.  
  ^ "Cityzens". ManCity.com. Manchester City FC. Archived from the original on 16 May 2023. Retrieved 16 May 2023.  
  ^ "England 1937/38". league table from RSSSF. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016. Retrieved 29 December 2005.  
  ^ Rowlands, Trautmann – The Biography, pp. 178–184  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 27–36  
  ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years, pp. 37–56  
  ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2, pp. 13–22  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, pp. 410–420  
  ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 68  
  ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City. Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4. p. 177  
  ^ David Clayton, Everything Under the Blue Moon (Mainstream Publishing, 2002), 21  
  ^ "City Greats go into Hall of Fame". mancity.com. (Manchester City Football Club). 16 September 2009. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017. Retrieved 19 April 2017.  
  ^ "Players". mancity.com. Archived from the original on 26 April 2023. Retrieved 20 July 2022.  
  ^ "Managers". mcfcstats.com. Archived from the original on 29 September 2017. Retrieved 29 March 2006.  
  ^ "FA Cup preview". ESPN Star article. Archived from the original on 19 December 2007. Retrieved 24 September 2009. (archive.org mirror)  
  ^ "Typical City!". Unofficial supporters homepage. Archived from the original on 11 January 2006. Retrieved 25 March 2006.  
  ^ Wallace, Dave (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58. Leigh: King of the Kippax. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1. page ix  
  ^ "The Inflatables Craze". Manchester City Football Club Supporters' Homepage. Archived from the original on 23 April 1999. Retrieved 30 December 2005.  
  ^ "Rivalry Uncovered!" (PDF). The Football Fans Census. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2013. Retrieved 3 December 2020.  
  ^ Taylor, Daniel (10 April 2009). "Wardle quits City". The Guardian. UK. Archived from the original on 7 November 2011. Retrieved 28 August 2008.  
  ^ "曼城母公司收购四川九牛获官方宣布". Sina.com. 20 February 2019. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019. Retrieved 20 February 2019.  
  ^ Inglis, The Football Grounds of Great Britain, p62  
  ^ "Club History". Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2016. Retrieved 19 April 2017.  
  ^ "1904 Manchester City". Match report at fa-cupfinals.co.uk. FA-CupFinals.co.uk. Archived from the original on 20 July 2009. Retrieved 23 September 2009.  
  ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p524  
  ^ a b James, Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 155  
  ^ "Sergio Agüero". Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 16 February 2018. Retrieved 17 February 2018.  
  ^ Clayton, Everything Under the Blue Moon, p. 112.  
  This audio file was created from a revision of this article dated 21 May 2007 (2007-05-21), and does not reflect subsequent edits.  
  ↑ Manchester City strike deal to rename Eastlands [online]. bbc.co.uk, 2011-7-8 [cit. 2011-09-25]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ Mark Hughes sacked as Man City appoint Mancini manager [online]. bbc.co.uk, 2009-12-19 [cit. 2011-09-25]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ Novým trenérem Citizens se stal Manuel Pellegrini [online]. fotbalportal.cz, 2013-6-15 [cit. 2013-08-30]. Dostupné online.  
  ↑ a b c WILSON, Paul. Premier League preview No10: Manchester City. The Guardian [online]. 2013-08-09 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b c 2013/14 Season Review. premierleague.com [online]. [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné v archivu pořízeném dne 2018-12-06. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b TWEEDALE, Alistair. Premier League 2013-14 season: the statistical review. The Guardian [online]. 2014-05-14 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b MCNULTY, Phil. Premier League 2014-15: Who will finish where?. BBC [online]. 2014-08-13 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b JACKSON, Jamie. Premier League 2014-15 preview No10: Manchester City. The Guardian [online]. 2014-08-08 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ KEEGAN, Mike. Manchester City 0-1 Stoke City. BBC [online]. 2014-08-30 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b KEEGAN, Mike. Premier League 2014-15 season review: Manchester City end up trophyless after title challenge fizzles out too early. Daily Mail [online]. 2015-05-25 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b MCNULTY, Phil. Premier League 2015-16: Who will finish where?. BBC [online]. 2015-08-05 [cit. 2020-05-28]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b c d BATE, Adam. Manchester City 2015/16 Premier League season review. Sky Sports [online]. 2016-05-15 [cit. 2020-05-28]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b WILSON, Paul. Premier League 2016-17 preview No10: Manchester City. The Guardian [online]. 2016-08-05 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ TAYLOR, Daniel. Chelsea surge past Manchester City as Agüero and Fernandinho see red. The Guardian [online]. 2016-12-03 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b Premier League 2016-17 season review: our writers’ best and worst. The Guardian [online]. 22 May 017-05-22 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ MCNULTY, Phil. Phil McNulty's Premier League end-of-season report and manager ratings. BBC [online]. 2018-05-13 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b c d THOMPSON, Phil. Manchester City 2017/18 Premier League season review. Sky Sports [online]. 2018-05-14 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ AMES, Nick. Premier League 2018-19 preview No 13: Manchester City. The Guardian [online]. 2018-08-07 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ STEINBERG, Jacob. Manchester City’s Phil Foden excels in role earmarked for Jorginho. The Guardian [online]. 2018-08-05 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b c d 2018/19 Season Review. premierleague.com [online]. 2019-05-29 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b Premier League 2018-19 season review: our writers’ best and worst. The Guardian [online]. 2019-05-14 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ BULLIN, Matt. Man City win treble - how impressive is that achievement?. BBC [online]. 2019-05-18 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ Manchester City - Inter 1:0, Rodriho trefa finále Ligy mistrů rozhodla! Citizens mají treble, Italové do třetice poraženi. Sport.cz [online]. 2023-06-10 [cit. 2023-06-11]. Dostupné online.  
  ↑ Guardiola je génius, zní z kabiny Citizens. Nejlepší zápas to ale prý nebyl. Sport.cz [online]. 2023-06-11 [cit. 2023-06-11]. Dostupné online.  
  ↑ a b c "ARDWICK" [online]. fchd.info [cit. 2015-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ a b c "MANCHESTER CITY" [online]. fchd.info [cit. 2015-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ "Manchester City win Premier League title" [online]. mancity.com, 12.05.2019 [cit. 2019-05-12]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ "Man City win Carabao Cup on penalties after Arrizabalaga refuses to be subbed" [online]. bbc.com, 24.02.2019 [cit. 2019-02-24]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ "Man City edge Liverpool on penalties in entertaining Community Shield" [online]. bbc.com, 04.08.2019 [cit. 2019-08-04]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ James M. Ross. European Competitions 1969-70 [online]. RSSSF, rev. 2015-06-04 [cit. 2020-05-27]. Kapitola Cup Winners' Cup 1969-70. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  ↑ Manchester City – Manager history [online]. World Football [cit. 2020-05-27]. Dostupné online. (anglicky)  
  Manchester City Stats  
  Premier League Club Friendlies 1 UEFA Super Cup Community Shield UEFA Champions League League Cup FA Cup* Change data to another competition  
  2023/24 Manchester City Statistics  
  This season in Premier League, Manchester City's form is Very Good overall with 19 wins, 6 draws, and 3 losses. This performance currently places Manchester City at 3rd out of 20 teams in the Premier League Table, winning 68% of matches. Manchester City's home form is very good with the following results : 10 wins, 4 draws, and 0 losses. And their away form is considered excellent, as a result of 9 wins, 2 draws, and 3 losses.  
  Manchester City has scored a total of 63 goals this season in Premier League.  
  Manchester City vs West Ham United Today Manchester City host West Ham United in the Premier League.  
  Fulham vs Manchester City Today Fulham host Manchester City in the Premier League.  
  Manchester City vs Wolverhampton Wanderers Today Manchester City host Wolverhampton Wanderers in the Premier League.  
  Nottingham Forest vs Manchester City Today Nottingham Forest host Manchester City in the Premier League.  
  The City Ground Pavilion Road, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire  
  Brighton & Hove Albion vs Manchester City Today Brighton & Hove Albion host Manchester City in the Premier League.  
  The American Express Community Stadium Village Way, Falmer, East Sussex  
  Manchester City vs Luton Town Today Manchester City host Luton Town in the Premier League.  
  Crystal Palace vs Manchester City Today Crystal Palace host Manchester City in the Premier League.  
  Manchester City vs Aston Villa Today Manchester City host Aston Villa in the Premier League.  
  Manchester City vs Arsenal Today Manchester City host Arsenal in the Premier League.  
  • Manchester City has conceded a total of 28 goals this season in Premier League.  
  • Manchester City concedes a goal every 90 min.  
  • Manchester City concedes an average of 1 goals every game.  
  Manchester City has a ratio of 61% Over 2.5 goals during the Premier League 2023/2024 (17 / 28 fixtures). Over / Under Goals are calculated from total match goals for fixtures that Manchester City has participated in.  
  Manchester City's ratio of Under 2.5 goals is 39% in the Premier League 2023/2024 season (11 / 28 matches).  
  Corner Stats - Manchester City  
  * Average Corner Kicks per match between Manchester City and their opponents in a single match.  
  Match corners is the total corners between Manchester City and their opponent in the match.  
  Total Goals By 15 min'  
  Match Cards  
  * Average Total Match Cards per match between Manchester City and their opponents in a single match.  
  Match cards is the total cards between Manchester City and their opponent in the match. Red cards = 2 cards.  
  Cards For is Manchester City's bookings. Against is the opponent team's bookings.  
  Shots, xG & Offsides - Manchester City  
  * Average Shots Per Match for Manchester City in Premier League 2023/24  
  8.04/ Match  
  Shots On Target  
  5.32/ Match  
  Shots Off Target  
  Manchester City this season is taking a total of 374 shots, averaging 13.36 shots per match. 8.04 shots per match are on target and 5.32 shots per match are off target.  
  xG For - Expected Goals For of Manchester City is 2.17 xG, with a shots per match average of 13.36.  
  xG Against - Manchester City's xGA (Expected Goals Against) is 0.96 per match in the Premier League.  
  Manchester City Player Stats  
  Top Scorers  
  Erling Haaland is the most prolific scorer in the Manchester City's squad with 18 goals to his name, followed by Phil Foden with 11 goals, Cole Palmer with 11 goals, Álvarez with 8 goals, Bernardo Silva with 6 goals, Rodri with 6 goals, and Mcatee with 3 goal. This Manchester City top scorer's list is for the 2023/2024 Premier League season.  
  * Stats from 2023/24 season of Premier League  
  Most Assists  
  The 2023/2024 season is seeing Manchester City's Julián Álvarez lead the team in assists with 8, followed by Cole Palmer with 8 and Phil Foden with 7.  
  * Stats from 2023/24 season of Premier League  
  Most Appearances  
  Phil Foden leads Manchester City's appearance list with 28 appearances this season in the Premier League. Phil Foden is followed by Álvarez (28 apps) and Ederson (27 apps).  
  * Stats from 2023/24 season of Premier League  
  Most Cards  
  Manchester City's most frequently booked player is Rodri (9 cards), followed by Bernardo Silva (7 cards), and Cole Palmer (7 card).  
  Manchester City FC  
  Much like their Mancunian rivals, Manchester City have seen many highs during their colorful existence. With First Division/Premier League titles, FA Cups, League Cups and European Cup trohies, City stand tall as one of the most successful English football clubs of all time. Still, their history contains more than enough lows to even it up; for example, City are still the only English champions to be relegated the very next season.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1880 Country: England City: Manchester  
  Home grounds  
  Clowes Street (1880-1881) Kirkmanshulme Cricket Ground (1881-1882) Queens Road (1882-1884) Pink Bank Lane (1884-1887) Hyde Park (1887-1923) Maine Road (1923-2003) Etihad Stadium (2003-)  
  Main trophies  
  First Division/Premier League: 9 FA Cup: 7 League Cup: 6 Champions League: 1 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup: 1  
  Prominent players  
  Billy Meredith, Bert Trautmann, Tony Book, Eric Brook, Colin Bell, Francis Lee, Mike Summerbee, Bert Trautmann, Colin Bell, Richard Dunne, Trevor Francis, Niall Quinn, Uwe Rösler, Robinho, Joe Hart, David Silva, Carloz Tévez, Sergio Agüero, Kevin De Bruyne  
  Club records  
  Most games played: Eric Brook (178) Top goalscorer: Alan Oakes (682)  
  The 1904 FA Cup champs team.  
  History  
  The club was formed in 1880, under the name of St. Mark's, after an initiative by Arthur Connell (the rector of St Mark's Church) and his daughter, Anna Connell. After calling them self Gorton FC and Ardwick AFC for shorter periods, they would change their name to Manchester City in 1894. This coincides with some financial troubles that eventually led to restructuring of the club. The name change – combined with moving to the spacious grounds of Hyde Road a couple of years later – saw Manchester City become the most popular club in the city, with an enthusiastic fan base that followed them wherever they went. This rise in stature led to the club earning promotion to the First Division in 1899. Shortly after City had claimed their first trophy in 1904 (FA Cup), seventeen of their players were suspended due to allegations of financial misconduct; this led to the club's star player, Billy Meredith, moving across town to United, where he later won two league titles. In 1923, the club moved to Maine Road due to a fire that had destroyed the main stand at Hyde Road. In 1934, City returned to the path of success by winning their second FA Cup. Along the way, the club broke a record for highest attendance in a single game – which stands to this day – with 84,569 home fans gathering at Maine Road for a sixth round match against Stoke City. Three years later, City took home a First Division trophy in style, by scoring over 100 goals during the course of the season. Nevertheless, they were relegated the following season, which was the first time a reigning champion team were demoted.  
  Decline  
  This was followed by a long period of decline. With only a single FA Cup in the next three decades and attendance slowly dwindling, it was high time for changes. After Joe Mercer was appointed as manager in 1965, the club entered a hot streak; during his six years in charge, City won a First Division title, both English Cups and a Cup Winners' Cup. The post-Mercer period saw the club win another League Cup in 1976 before succumbing to another long spell of mediocrity. The return to top football in England started in the season 1998-99. After a dramatic play-off match against Gillingham, City succeeded to climb from Second Division to the First Division. The team managed to go directly through the Division One to the Premier. After relegation from Premier League, they would the next season win First Division by ten points ahead of West Bromwich. And after that, Manchester City has established them self as a Premier League team. For many years, Maine Road was City's home stadium, but in 2003 City of Manchester Stadium was built with a much bigger capacity.  
  New triumphant era  
  A takeover by the Abu Dhabi billionaire Sheikh Mansour in 2008 signaled a new and triumphant era. Now one of the richest clubs in the world, City immediately started getting busy on the transfer market, acquiring many big-name signings for record fees. The five years following Mansour's take over the club spent over £500 millions on players. The Abu Dhabi influence was also displayed by the decision to change the name of the home stadium to Etihad Stadium in 2011. Man City line up 2011 FA Cup final v. Stoke (1-0). This shopping spree saw the club relive their glory years, winning Premier League, one FA Cup and League Cup titles in the period that followed. A high point was the league victory in 2017-2018 season when City became the first team ever in Premier League to collect 100 points in one season. City made also a new record in consecutive league wins (18).  
  The 19 points difference from the first to the second team was something completely new for a league known as the most competitive in the game.  
  By Martin Wahl  
  Logo  
  Manchester City has made use of three dissimilar logos. The first version was abandon in 1960, but used again for a shorter period. The second design, introduced in the 1960s, would return as the logo in 2016 replacing the logo with the eagle behind the shield, which had been used since 1997. The current logo has a ship (symbolizing the historical trade function of the city) in the upper part of the shield and the Red Rose of Lancaster (symbolizing the historic connection with Lancashire) in the lower part of the shield.  
  Manchester City FC timeline  
  1880 The club is established (named as St. Mark's). 1887 The club is renamed as Ardwick AFC. 1887 The club move to the Hyde Park stadium. 1892 Division 2 is established with Ardwick AFC as a founding member. 1893 The Canadian Walter Bowman becomes the first foreign player to play for City and also in the Football League. 1894 The club is renamed as Manchester City. 1896 First FA Cup participation. 1899 The team is promoted to Division 1 for the first time. 1904 Winning their first tournament trophy (FA Cup). 1923 MCFC move to the Main Road stadium. 1937 First time Division 1 champions. 1965 A new logo is adopted. 1970 Winning their first European competition (Cup Winners' Cup). 1979 Steve Daley becomes the first player transferred to the club for a fee over £1 million (£1,450,277). 1997 A new logo is adopted. 2008 The Abu Dhabi United Group becomes the new owner of the club. 2014 Winning their first British Double (the League and the League Cup). 2015 Kevin De Bruyne becomes the first player transferred to the club for a fee over £50 million (£55M). 2023Winning their first Champions League trophy.  
  Records and statistics  
  External links  
  References: http://mcivta.com/history/ https://www.mancity.com/fans-and-community/club/club-history https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manchester_City_FC Simon Kuper and Stefan Szymanski, Soccernomics (2014) Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Clegg, The Club (2018) https://spartacus-educational.com/FreligionG.htm Image source: Unknown  
  Manchester City is a professional football club based in Manchester, England. The club was founded in 1880 under the name St. Mark's (West Gorton) and has a long and successful history, having won eig... ht English league titles, six FA Cups, and eight League Cups. Manchester City's home stadium is the Etihad Stadium, which has a capacity of over 55,000 spectators and is one of the largest and most modern football stadiums in England. Manchester City's home kits are traditionally sky blue. The club's first-ever jersey was black with a white cross. Traditionally, the club's away kit features black and red to resemble AC Milan. In recent times, many colour combinations have been used for Manchester City's away and third shirts. The club has had a number of different kit manufacturers over the years, including Umbro, Nike, and Puma. The current kit manufacturer is Puma, and the club has a partnership with the company that runs until 2029. The team's kits are popular with fans and are often seen as a symbol of the club's identity and success. More  
  More from Football  
  Latest  
  Content type  
  Manchester City Women defender and former England captain Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season.  
  John Stones, Kyle Walker, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli are among the key players in a race to be fit for the big Super Sunday showdown between Man City and Arsenal.  
  Man City are facing a defensive injury crisis ahead of Sunday's huge game with Arsenal after John Stones joined Kyle Walker and Manuel Akanji in picking up an injury.  
  Kyle Walker is expected to recover from injury in time for Man City's huge match against title rivals Arsenal on Sunday - live on Sky Sports.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  Ex-Man City chairman David Bernstein has urged the PL to “get a move on” regarding a conclusion to the club’s alleged breaches of financial rules.  
  The FA Cup semi-finals schedule has been revealed with Man City and their opponents Chelsea, plus Man Utd and Coventry, finding out when they'll meet at Wembley...  
  The Football Show analyses the latest edition of Match Officials Mic'd up and asks if VAR made the wrong call on Jeremy Doku's challenge on Alexis Mac Allister citing that both players 'came in high'.  
  With the Premier League reaching its final stretch of games, we take a look at where each team are compared to this stage last season...  
  Sky Sports' Peter Smith has picked out two issues with the officials' explanation for not awarding Liverpool a penalty late on against Man City.  
  Former Manchester City forward Robinho must serve his nine-year prison sentence in Brazil as a result of his 2017 rape conviction in Italy, a Brazilian high court ruled.  
  Holders Man City have been drawn against Chelsea in the FA Cup semi-finals, while Man Utd will face Championship side Coventry.  
  Man City became the first team in history to reach six consecutive FA Cup semi-finals, with a routine 2-0 win over Newcastle sealing their spot at Wembley.  
  PGMOL chief Howard Webb gives his verdict on the big penalty controversy at the end of the Liverpool vs Manchester City game and more...  
  As part of Sky Sports News' Real Talk series, Nedum Onuoha talks about how losing his mum impacted his career.  
  Man Utd's trip to Bournemouth will now take place on April 13, while Arsenal's clash with Aston Villa has been moved to April 14, with both fixtures live on Sky Sports.  
  Man City will face Real Madrid in the Champions League quarter-finals while Arsenal were drawn against Bayern Munich.  
  Ron Walker, Peter Smith and Sam Blitz discuss the Premier League make a case for each of the three contenders - Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester City.  
  Jamie Carragher and Ian Wright deconstruct the intricate corner routine which led to Manchester City's goal against Liverpool on Sunday.  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  City went top of the WSL after a comfortable derby victory, inspired by a brilliant performance from Jess Park  
  Live feed  
  Full time: Manchester City 3-1 Manchester United  
  Manchester City go top of the WSL, at least for the next 24 hours, after an ultimately comfortable win in the derby. United were probably the better team at the start and end of the game – but City were vastly superior either side of half-time, particularly the 10-minute spell in which the outstanding Jess Park scored twice and made a third for Bunny Shaw.  
  United deserve credit for their persistence, which was rewarded with an own goal from Kerstin Casparij, but they never really looked like getting back in the game.  
  Sophie Downey’s match report has gone live, so it’s time to put this blog to bed. Thanks for your company – bye!  
  It’s incredible – I don’t think there’s a feeling that comes close to it. I’ve been working really hard and that [a first league goal for City] was the final bit I wanted, and today I managed to get it.  
  We’ve got so much confidence in each other and that shows on the pitch. That really helps me.  
  [On the first goal] It was a brilliant pick out and I just thought, ‘Keep it down, keep it down!' I saw it go in and, yeah, the feeling can’t compare.  
  We’re solely focussed on the league now and today was a very good result. The first 20 minutes were a bit nervy but after that we played well.  
  You can’t score all the time but as long as you’re working for the team, good things can happen. [On her goal] Me and Jess work a lot in training and we demand a lot of each other. It was similar to the Chelsea goal.  
  Last year I scored a lot of goals but there was another level for me to go to. I watch a lot of videos with Shaun [Goater] and we look at certain movements I could make to create space either for me or my teammates.  
  Full time: Manchester City 3-1 Manchester United  
  Manchester City go top of the WSL, at least for the next 24 hours, after an ultimately comfortable win in the derby. United were probably the better team at the start and end of the game – but City were vastly superior either side of half-time, particularly the 10-minute spell in which the outstanding Jess Park scored twice and made a third for Bunny Shaw.  
  United deserve credit for their persistence, which was rewarded with an own goal from Kerstin Casparij, but they never really looked like getting back in the game.  
  90+9 min Shaw misses a decent chance after good play from Fowler, and that’s the end of that.  
  90+4 min Le Tissier’s long ball into the box is helped by on by the header of Turner and claimed comfortably by Keating. City are always there.  
  90 min City have weathered the storm and are going top of the WSL table for the next 24 hours at least.  
  88 min: City substitution Esme Morgan replaces Leila Ouahabi, who made the first goal and had an excellent duel with Geyse.  
  87 min Zelem’s corner leads to a desperate scramble in the City area. Le Tissier scoops the ball towards goal and eventually Williams is penalised for handball.  
  86 min: United substitution Melvine Malard comes on for Toone, who had a disappointing day.  
  85 min Garcia controls a long ball superbly, Cruyff-turns Angeldal and finds Toone on the edge of the area to her left. Toone cuts inside and curls wide of the far post.  
  84 min: City substitution As the attendance of 40,086 is announced, Filippa Angeldal comes on for Laura Coombs.  
  82 min This is United’s best spell of the game, by a distance, and City have been temporarily reduced to booting the ball anywhere.  
  80 min Geyse wriggles away from Coombs on the right and drives a cross that is crucially cleared by Kennedy. City look, if not nervous, then at least a bit uncomfortable.  
  78 min Both players are on their feet. It was an accidental collision off the ball when the original corner was cleared to the edge of the area.  
  77 min The corner leads to a clash of heads between Williams and Greenwood, and the referee blows the whistle a split-second before Geyse smashes a very good chance over the bar.  
  76 min Geyse wins a corner for United, who could make life exceedingly interesting by getting a second goal.  
  75 min Shaw has an immediate chance to make it 4-1, dragging wide of the near post from a tightish angle on the left side of the area.  
  United will feel they’ve earned that with a determined spell. After a longish spell of possession in the City half, Toone played in the overlapping Bluindell on the left. Her cross took a big deflection off the stretching Casparij and wrongfooted Keating at the near post.  
  GOAL! Man City 3-1 Man Utd (Casparij og 74)  
  72 min The corner is played short to Blundell, whose cross isn’t held by Keating. She gets away with it.  
  71 min Garcia runs Casparij to win another corner. United have found a bit of energy from somewhere.  
  70 min Geyse runs at Ouahabi to win a corner for United, who are having a decent spell.  
  69 min Zelem wins the ball just outside the City area after a good press from United. Garcia has a couple of shots blocked and City break through Fowler, whose long-range shot is straight at Earps.  
  67 min Keating springs from her line to dive at the feet of Williams, who was running onto a loose ball in the area. Good goalkeeping.  
  66 min After good play by Fowler, Mannion does well to block Coombs’ shot from the edge of the area.  
  64 min City play through the United press until Fowler spins Turner and is pulled back. That might have been a yellow card. After an even first 30-35 minutes, the game is painfully one-sided now.  
  60 min Hemp plays a smooth one-two with Ouahabi and crosses deep to Shaw, who heads over from four yards. She couldn’t get over the ball.  
  58 min Those early chances for Geyse and Parris seem a long time ago. United’s fragile confidence was shattered by those goals either side of half-time.  
  57 min: Man Utd substitutions Riviere has admitted defeat, which makes sense with an FA Cup semi-final on the horizon. Aoife Mannion replaces her and Rachel Williams comes on for Nikita Parris.  
  55 min Play resumes with United down to 10 for the time being. In fact Riviere is coming back on, though she isn’t moving brilliantly.  
  54 min Riviere is being helped to her feet, though she won’t be able to continue.  
  52 min Riviere slips while trying to change direction and stays down. She looks in a lot of pain.  
  50 min Fowler’s second corner bounces kindly for Hemp, whose snapshot hits Geyse and goes behind for another corner.  
  49 min Fowler’s inswinging corner is punched away the backpedalling Earps. That wasn’t a million miles from going straight into the net.  
  49 min We know how important goal difference could be in the title race, so City are unlikely to settle for three goals. Fowler wins another corner on the right…  
  48 min What a game Jess Park is having – two goals and an assist now, and the assist was arguably the best of the lot.  
  Bunny Shaw has scored after 30 seconds of the second half! Park was too strong for Zelem in midfield and played a marvellous reverse pass to put Shaw through on goal. Le Tissier tried to challenge from the side but bounced off Shaw, who had loads of time to calmly pass the ball into the corner.  
  It’s her 68th goal for City, which makes Shaw the club’s all-time leading goalscorer.  
  GOAL! Man City 3-0 Man Utd (Shaw 46)  
  Half time: Man City 2-0 Man Utd  
  City are in control of the derby thanks to a pair of volleys from Jess Park. United started well, with Geyse particularly dangerous on the right, but City slowly wore them down as the half progressed.  
  The first goal should have been disallowed for offside, though City will point out that Hannah Blundell probably should have been sent off at 0-0.  
  It was another volley, though this was much simpler. Fowler took the corner short to Casparij, got the ball back and gave to Hasegawa in space. Her deep, angled cross from the right was headed back across goal by Kennedy, and Park quicker than Le Tissier to volley past Earps from close range.  
  GOAL! Man City 2-0 Man Utd (Park 45)  
  44 min Fowler’s cross from the right deflects onto the roof of the net. United need half-time because City are finding a lot more space now.  
  41 min The resulting corner, taken by Zelem, is headed across goal and wide by Le Tissier.  
  40 min: Good save by Keating! The game has come to alive. Geyse rolls Ouahabi on the right and smashes an angry shot from a very tight angle. Keating flies to her left to beat it round the near post.  
  39 min: Shaw has a goal disallowed! This time the flag does go up as Shaw stabs a loose ball past Earps from four yards. She was miles offside so there’s no controversy that time.  
  Manchester  
  England, United Kingdom  
  Actions  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Please select which sections you would like to print:  
  Table Of Contents  
  Cite  
  verifiedCite  
  While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions.  
  Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login).  
  Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  
  Manchester, city and metropolitan borough in the metropolitan county of Greater Manchester urban county, northwestern England. Most of the city, including the historic core, is in the historic county of Lancashire, but it includes an area south of the River Mersey in the historic county of Cheshire. Manchester is the nucleus of the largest metropolitan area in the north of England, and it remains an important regional city, but it has lost the extraordinary vitality and unique influence that put it at the forefront of the Industrial Revolution. The city is today famous worldwide for its two top Premier League football clubs, Manchester United and Manchester City.  
  Manchester was an urban prototype: in many respects it could claim to be the first of the new generation of huge industrial cities created in the Western world during the past 250 years. In 1717 it was merely a market town of 10,000 people, but by 1851 its textile (chiefly cotton) industries had so prospered that it had become a manufacturing and commercial city of more than 300,000 inhabitants, already spilling out its suburbs and absorbing its industrial satellites. By the beginning of the 20th century, salients of urban growth linked Manchester to the ring of cotton-manufacturing towns—Bolton, Rochdale, and Oldham, for example—that almost surround the city, and a new form of urban development, a conurbation, or metropolitan area, was evolving. By 1911 it had a population of 2,350,000. In the following years, however, the pace of growth slowed dramatically. If the 19th century was Manchester’s golden age, when it was indisputably Britain’s second city, the 20th century was marked by increasing industrial problems associated with the decline of the textile trades (the result of foreign competition and technological obsolescence). Area city, 45 square miles (116 square km); Greater Manchester metropolitan county, 493 square miles (1,276 square km). Pop. (2001) city, 392,419; Greater Manchester metropolitan county, 2,482,328; (2011) city, 503,127; Greater Manchester metropolitan county, 2,682,528.  
  Physical and human geography  
  The landscape  
  The city site  
  Manchester occupies a featureless plain made up of river gravels and the glacially transported debris known as drift. It lies at a height of 133 feet (40 metres) above sea level, enclosed by the slopes of the Pennine range on the east and the upland spur of Rossendale on the north. Much of the plain is underlain by coal measures; mining was once widespread but had ceased by the end of the 20th century. Within this physical unit, known as the Manchester embayment, the city’s metropolitan area evolved. Manchester, the central city, is situated on the east bank of the River Irwell and has an elongated north-south extent, the result of late 19th- and early 20th-century territorial expansion. In 1930 the city extended its boundaries far to the south beyond the River Mersey, to annex 9 square miles (23 square km) of the northern portion of the former administrative county of Cheshire. Two large metropolitan boroughs adjoin the city of Manchester on the west and southwest: Salford and Trafford. Together these three administrative units form the chief concentration of commercial employment. From this core, suburbs have spread far to the west and south, chiefly within the unitary authority of Cheshire East. To the north and east of Manchester, smaller industrial towns and villages, mixed with suburban development, merge into one another and extend as a continuous urban area to the foot of the encircling upland. Close to the upland margin lies a ring of large towns, which were traditionally the major centres of the cotton-spinning industry—Bolton, Bury, and Rochdale to the north and Oldham, Ashton-under-Lyne, and Stockport to the east.  
  The urban structure of metropolitan Manchester is determined largely by its industrial zones. By far the most important of these is the one bisecting it from east to west. This contains most of the heavier industry—petrochemicals on the Ship Canal near Irlam, electrical engineering in Trafford Park and Salford, and machine tools and metal fabrication in eastern Manchester. Industry in the south is confined to a few compact, largely planned factory estates, notably at Altrincham and Wythenshawe. North and east of Manchester, ribbons of long-established industry follow every railway, river valley, and abandoned canal. The electrochemical industries of the Irwell valley, the dyestuffs of the Irk, and, everywhere, the old textile mills (many converted to new industrial uses) are the dominant features.  
  Climate  
  Manchester’s climate is most kindly described as mild, moist, and misty. The temperate climate is without extremes: winters are mild, with a January mean temperature in the high 30s F (about 4 °C), and summers are cool, with a July mean temperature in the high 50s F (about 15 °C). Occasional high-pressure systems produce cold, clear spells in winter or hot droughts in summer, but these rarely persist. Winds from the west and south prevail, and these bathe the city in frequent gentle rain derived from the almost constant succession of Atlantic weather systems. The annual rainfall, 32 inches (818 mm), is not notably high by the standards of western Britain, but it occurs on no less than half of the days in an average year. There is little reliable seasonal variation, but the months of March through May offer the best chance of prolonged dry spells.  
  The wet Atlantic air banked against the Pennine slopes to the east of the city produces extreme cloudiness; on about 70 percent of the days of the year, the afternoon sky is at least half covered by cloud. This limits sunshine, which was further reduced by air pollution during the decades of the city’s industrial prosperity. Up to about 1960 the city centre recorded the abnormally low total of only 970 sunshine hours annually. Foul fogs were another problem of the man-made industrial climate. Manchester then had an average of 55 days of serious fog in a typical year, and the death rate from respiratory diseases surged following these fog episodes. But the city’s peculiarly sunless and fog-bound winter climate was transformed by effective air-pollution control. Annual hours of bright sunshine have risen to about 1,300, and serious fogs have been reduced to about 20 days each year. This has been a major factor in reducing the incidence of two formerly endemic diseases, bronchitis and tuberculosis, which had given the city an unenviably high death rate.  
  Get a Britannica Premium subscription and gain access to exclusive content. Subscribe Now  
  Accessibility links  
  Manchester United FC  
  Historical insights into 6 of the biggest English Football Clubs  
  From the brink to ‘knocking Liverpool off their perch’...  
  History lesson  
  For many Manchester United are the biggest football club in the world, not least when it comes to finance. Their shirts are as likely to be seen on children in Saipan and Soweto as they are more locally in Salford and Stockport. Their Old Trafford home, dubbed the Theatre of Dreams by one of their greatest icons Sir Bobby Charlton, is as much a tourist attraction as it is a football stadium. United are not just an English football club, but a global brand.  
  This is all a long way from the club’s humble beginnings. They were not originally even called Manchester United. Rather, when founded as the works team for the local railway depot in 1878, they were known as Newton Heath Lancashire & Yorkshire Railway Football Club.  
  They did not feel ready to become founder members of the Football League in 1888, instead joining the First Division four years later. Was it a successful start? No, they finished bottom, winning only six of their 30 games, amassing a meagre 18 points. They were relegated the following year.  
  With the club beset by financial problems, a local brewer came to the rescue in 1902 and Manchester United were born, with the now famous red and white team colours replacing Newton Heath’s green and gold. They had already been champions in the 1907-08 season when they moved to Old Trafford in 1910 and reclaimed the title in their first full campaign there.  
  However, it was the post-Second World War period when United really began to taste success under Sir Matt Busby. His young team, the Busby Babes, won the title in 1951-52, 1955-56, and 1956-57, playing an exciting brand of attacking football. But, tragedy befell the club on 6 February 1958 when the lives of 23 people, including eight of Busby’s players, were claimed in the Munich air disaster.  
  Busby remained as manager and United enjoyed more glory in the 1960s, winning the league twice and becoming the first English side to lift the European Cup, beating Benfica at Wembley in 1968. Busby retired the next season and except for the odd FA Cup, the 1970s and 1980s were a lean period for United, who were even relegated in 1974.  
  Enter Sir Alex Ferguson, the greatest manager in the history of the British game, in 1986. After a shaky start, he more than achieved his aim of knocking arch-rivals Liverpool off their perch as the most successful club in the country, guiding United to 13 Premier League titles — including the inaugural competition in 1992-93 — and two Champions League triumphs among other honours as the club dominated the game.  
  Three years after the Scot’s retirement, the 20-times English champions are hoping Jose Mourinho can bring back the sort of success Ferguson almost guaranteed year in, year out.  
  Great players  
  Duncan Edwards, dubbed the original boy wonder, was a strong, buccaneering player at home in a host of positions. Busby said he was the most “complete footballer in Britain, possibly the world”. Edwards’ death at the age of only 21 from injuries he suffered in the Munich air crash was described by Charlton as “the biggest tragedy in the history of English football”.  
  Charlton, himself, is regarded not only as one of England’s greatest footballers, but also sportsmen. He was part of the 1966 World Cup-winning side and also scored twice in United’s 4-1 European Cup final win over Benfica two years later.  
  George Best, also a scorer at Wembley that night, is probably the most talented footballer Great Britain and Northern Ireland have produced. The Belfast boy loved tying opposition full-backs in knots almost as much as he loved the high life. As the man himself once said: “If you'd given me the choice of beating four men and smashing a goal in from 30 yards against Liverpool or going to bed with Miss World, it would have been a difficult choice. Luckily, I had both.”  
  Bryan Robson, known as Captain Marvel, was a constant, inspirational force in the United midfield throughout the 1980s while, in 1991, a 17-year-old winger named Ryan Giggs made his debut. Twenty-three years, 963 appearances and 13 Premier League titles later, Giggs played his final game for United with the then-caretaker manager bringing himself on against Hull City. The Welshman is easily the most decorated player in English football history.  
  No list of United’s greatest players should pass without mention of Eric Cantona. The charismatic Frenchman helped United to their first Premier League title, after joining from Leeds United for only £1.2m (US$2.2m) in November 1992. His style and swagger captivated the Old Trafford faithful although he was never far from controversy —banned from the game for nine months after jumping into the crowd and clashing with a fan at Crystal Palace’s ground Selhurst Park in 1995. David Beckham was, like Best, the footballing poster boy of his day. A fine player, he perhaps helped to build United’s global image and brand more than any other individual.  
  This season  
  Since Ferguson retired in 2013, United have, by their standards, endured three lean seasons. David Moyes struggled and was sacked before he could even manage a full campaign in charge while the past two seasons under Louis van Gaal were, apart from the FA Cup triumph in May, unsuccessful and fairly forgettable.  
  Mourinho, the new man in charge, is fancied to bring the glory days back to Old Trafford but the combustible Portuguese has plenty to prove after his Chelsea side imploded so spectacularly last year, only months after winning the title. The signings of Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Paul Pogba – the latter costing up to US$122.3m —are a statement of intent that United are not content to remain in the ranks of the also-rans.  
  Did you know?  
  According to Deloitte’s Football Money League for the 2014-15 season, United were the third richest club in the world with revenues of about US$521m while US business magazine Forbes stated in July their market value at US$2.8bn, behind only the big two in Spain – Real Madrid (US$3.4bn) and Barcelona (US$3.2bn).  
  With 963 appearances in all competitions, Giggs has played comfortably more games for United than any other player. Charlton (758) is second and Paul Scholes (718) third.  
  Nearly three million United shirts were sold worldwide during the 2015-16 season.  
  United jointly hold the record with Arsenal for the most FA Cup wins (12) and the most appearances in the final (19).  
  Ferguson took charge of exactly 1,500 matches at United, winning 895.  
  A Fan's Guide to Manchester United FC on Foxtel  
  MUTV is the official club channel of Manchester United. It offers fans delayed coverage of all Manchester United’s Premier League, FA Cup, EFL Cup and UEFA Europa League matches plus selected pre-season matches. MUTV also broadcasts footballing news and other themed programming. Get closer to the players and club you love with exclusive access to Old Trafford, the AON training complex and players and staff, including full and unedited coverage of Jose Mourinho’s weekly press conference.  
  Manchester United  
  Follow Manchester UnitedFollowing  
  Follow Manchester United  
  close panel  
  You are now following Manchester United  
  Latest updates from your Sport topics will appear in My Sport in the BBC Sport App and in a collection on the BBC homepage.  
  Latest updates  
  'If you're good enough, you're old enough'published at 17:06  
  17:06  
  We asked if it would be the right call to take Kobbie Mainoo to Euro 2024 after the Manchester United midfielder shone against Belgium on Tuesday.  
  Here is a snapshot of your comments, with most of you keen to see him don the Three Lions shirt in Germany:  
  Ben: If you're good enough, you're old enough. The kid clearly has the temperament, the skill and the drive to help England win football games. Why would you not include him?  
  Scott: He should go. Play as many minutes as Gareth Southgate sees fit in the group stages. If he performs well, play him for a few minutes in the knockouts. As long as he comes back fit for United...  
  Christine: Kobbie should go to the Euros - he is a fantastic young talent. He is like a Paul Scholes and Roy Keane rolled into one, with a splash of Zinedine Zidane. One day, he will win the Ballon d'Or. Trouble is, Southgate probably won't take him and that will be a mistake.  
  Steve: Some players need protecting and introducing slowly, to limit weight of expectation. Others, like Ryan Giggs, Lee Sharpe, the Class of 92 and Marcus Rashford, are ready to step up because they have the right temperament and maturity. Mainoo seems to fit the latter. He was sublime against Belgium. He was fluid and forward-thinking and his link-up with Jude Bellingham, Phil Foden and Jarrod Bowen was excellent. He is better than the alternatives already.  
  Kevin: My biggest concern is that he may get injured. He never backed down on Tuesday, to his credit, but took some hard knocks. I'd rather he doesn't go this time - not that he isn't good enough, but let him grow, develop and mature a bit more first. He could be a great player.  
  Iain: Mainoo should be cosseted by the club in the same way that they looked after Giggs as a teenager. United have a real reputation for bringing on well-grounded teenagers and dropping Kobbie into the glare of the Euros would be a mistake.  
  'If Southgate becomes manager, I will support someone else'published at 16:08  
  16:08  
  On the latest episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast, the team discuss Manchester United's recent links to Gareth Southgate, with host Joe McGrath saying the England manager "has no style of football".  
  Brentford v Man Utd: Pick of the statspublished at 14:50  
  14:50  
  Brentford have lost seven of their past nine league meetings with Manchester United, but they did win this fixture 4-0 last season.  
  United's seven league visits to Brentford have produced 30 goals, an average of 4.3 per game. Both of their top-flight defeats at the Bees have been by a 4-0 scoreline (October 1936 and August 2022).  
  Erik ten Hag's side have won just one of their past eight Premier League away games against London sides, and have lost four of their past five.  
  Only the bottom two sides, Burnley and Sheffield United, have lost more Premier League games than Brentford this season. Since a three-game winning run in October/November, the Bees have won just three of their past 18.  
  United have won more games by a one-goal margin - 12 of their 15 victories - than any other side in the Premier League this season.  
  'I know how hard it can be when there is clamour' - Bellingham on Mainoopublished at 11:13  
  11:13  
  Real Madrid midfielder Jude Bellingham was asked about the performance of Manchester United's Kobbie Mainoo on Tuesday, after the 18-year-old made his first senior England start in the 2-2 draw with Belgium.  
  Bellingham, 20, netted the leveller late on at Wembley and has experienced similar media attention in the past, when he burst on to the international scene in 2020 at the age of 17.  
  "He was good tonight," said Bellingham to Channel 4 when asked about Mainoo's performance.  
  "I know how hard it can be when there is there is clamour and people put pressure on you.  
  "He is a brilliant player and I am sure he is going to have a great career at Manchester United, and hopefully for England as well."  
  Do you want Mainoo to go to Euro 2024?published at 09:41  
  09:41  
  He went on to say the Manchester United midfielder is "almost on the plane" for Gareth Southgate's Euro 2024 squad.  
  But would that be the right thing for an 18-year-old who has fewer than 25 senior appearances to his name?  
  Would it be better for him to have a summer away from the piercing spotlight of England duty and continue his development quietly at Carrington?  
  Mainoo 'made real case' to be in Euro squadpublished at 09:29  
  09:29  
  A few months ago, only a few people knew the name Kobbie Mainoo. Now, the 18-year-old is in the mix to play for England at Euro 2024.  
  The Manchester United midfielder, who has made only 23 appearances in his first full season for the club, now has two senior England caps to his name.  
  After making his debut as a substitute against Brazil, Mainoo was handed a starting place by Gareth Southgate in Tuesday's friendly with Belgium.  
  "You just can't stop being impressed by this young man," said former England goalkeeper Paul Robinson on BBC Radio 5 Live's Football Daily podcast. "He's played less than 25 games for Manchester United but he's had an impact on Southgate and has been promoted into the first team."  
  Aged 18 years and 342 days, Mainoo became the third-youngest United player to start a game for England, behind Duncan Edwards(18y 183d) and Marcus Rashford (18y 209d).  
  "Quite often from an international point of view, we're guilty of promoting players too young and they don't even make it off the bench," added Robinson. "This isn't the case with Mainoo.  
  "He's come into the side and straight into the starting line-up. There might be players missing through injury but he's made a real case to be included in the Euro squad.  
  "He adds versatility to the midfield and he looked calm and comfortable with the ball."  
  Gossip: Man Utd consider Toney and Gomespublished at 07:52  
  07:52  
  Meanwhile, United have identified Wolves' 23-year-old Brazil midfielder Joao Gomes as a replacement for compatriot Casemiro, 32. (Sport - in Spanish), external  
  Manchester United would bring in England's full coaching staff if they appoint Gareth Southgate as manager in the summer. (Sun), external  
  But the club also want to speak to Wolves manager Gary O'Neil about a role among a new coaching set-up at Old Trafford. (ESPN), external  
  Mainoo set for first England startpublished at 13:23 26 March  
  13:23 26 March  
  Alex Howell BBC Sport football news reporter  
  Manchester United midfielder Kobbie Mainoo is set to start for England against Belgium at Wembley on Tuesday.  
  Mainoo, 18, made his debut from the bench against Brazil on Saturday.  
  England have limited options in the deeper midfield areas and manager Gareth Southgate has referenced that when speaking to the media this week.  
  Mainoo has made 23 appearances in his first full season for United, scoring two goals.  
  The three things United need between now and the end of the seasonpublished at 12:23 26 March  
  12:23 26 March  
  Alex Turk Fan writer  
  Manchester United have endured a disappointing season compared with the success of Erik ten Hag's maiden campaign.  
  But, to finish on a high and ensure the first full season of the Sir Jim Ratcliffe era is given the best chance of succeeding, three things need to happen between now and the summer:  
  Seal three key appointments  
  A compensation package must be agreed with Newcastle United to ensure Dan Ashworth starts his sporting director role this summer.  
  Jason Wilcox should also be in place as technical director, alongside a performance director.  
  Win the FA Cup  
  United have a great chance to ensure that thrilling 4-3 win over Liverpool was part of an FA Cup-winning run.  
  Lifting a 13th - potentially in the second successive Manchester derby final - would be the sweetest of conclusions.  
  Retain Champions League status  
  That said, that domestic trophy did not save Louis van Gaal from the sack in 2016 when he failed to qualify for the Champions League.  
  It's often too huge a financial blow to go unpunished. Ten Hag needs to finish in the top four (or potentially the top five).  
  'Happy to put him on at any moment' - Southgate on Mainoopublished at 11:32 26 March  
  11:32 26 March  
  England boss Gareth Southgate says Kobbie Mainoo is ready to start for England after making his international debut against Brazil on Saturday.  
  The 18-year-old has been a shining light for Manchester United this season and received a late call-up for the Three Lions after originally being named in the under-21 squad for this window.  
  Before England host Belgium on Tuesday, Southgate said he has already demonstrated his faith in the teenager.  
  "We put him in the team as the game went on the other day - when it was 0-0 against Brazil," said Southgate. "That would suggest we would be happy to put him on the pitch at any moment.  
  "We will be mindful of how quickly we go with a young player. Part of the opportunity is scarcity of options in that area of the pitch - the other part is he is playing extremely well and developing extremely well with his club.  
  "He has settled into our group with no problems at all and he looks completely at home."  
  'I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate'published at 09:12 26 March  
  09:12 26 March  
  BBC Radio Manchester's Gaz Drinkwater spoke to the The Devils' Advocate podcast about United's reported interest in Gareth Southgate as their next manager: "I don't believe any of the reports - I don't think they are even slightly interested in Southgate. This is me coming from a logic standpoint.  
  "Sir Jim Ratcliffe is going to want to make decisions that unite the fanbase and bringing in Southgate as manager would not be that decision.  
  "I admire someone who is going out and making decisions based on what he and his team thinks is right and not really caring what certain fans think. When we appointed Jose [Mourinho], [Louis] Van Gaal, [Erik] Ten Hag, everyone was happy with that. [David] Moyes was the only one that people weren't sure.  
  "I don't see a style of play [with Southgate]. I think he's the sort of manager that you bring in to a fractured dressing room to try and unite everyone. I don't think United's dressing room is as fractured as people think."  
  Gossip: Red Devils would prefer Frank to Southgate published at 07:59 26 March  
  07:59 26 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Brentford manager Thomas Frank to take over from Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford in the summer, not England boss Gareth Southgate. (Football Transfers), external  
  However, according to other reports, co-owner Sir Jim Ratcliffe and Ineos are planning for Ten Hag to be in charge at United next season, but are developing a strategy to be able to move quickly should they decide to replace him. (inews), external  
  Meanwhile, Manchester United will prioritise a deal for Crystal Palace's French winger Michael Olise, 22, this summer over PSV attacker Johan Bakayoko (Team talk), external  
  Finally, United have decided against making Morocco midfielder Sofyan Amrabat's move from Fiorentina permanent for £17m. AC Milan are monitoring the 27-year-old. (Calciomercato - in Italian), external  
  Ask Michael Brown - send in your questionspublished at 18:18 25 March  
  18:18 25 March  
  BBC Sport pundit Michael Brown will be answering your questions, giving his insight and opinion around your club.  
  So what would you like to ask the former Premier League midfielder?  
  How does the rest of your season look? Who has been your best player? What does the manager's future hold?  
  Could Southgate become the next United boss?published at 17:48 25 March  
  17:48 25 March  
  A new episode of BBC Radio Manchester's The Devils' Advocate podcast is available to listen to on BBC Sounds.  
  In this week's show, after some reports that Gareth Southgate could replace Erik ten Hag at Old Trafford, the team discuss whether that would be a good move for the England boss and the club.  
  Would Euro success open Old Trafford door for Southgate?published at 16:53 25 March  
  16:53 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and issues arising during the international break.  
  James asked: Would Euros success or failure be more likely to nudge Gareth Southgate towards Old Trafford?  
  Phil replied: First of all we have to stress... Southgate, as yet, has expressed no concrete view on his England future after Euro 2024.  
  As for Manchester United, if England won Euro 2024 then of course this would improve his chances of landing a big club job, such as the one at Old Trafford, if he wanted it.  
  I would hazard a guess that if England do not win Euro 2024 then the possibility would recede.  
  'Inconsistency has been a killer' - your biggest gripes of the seasonpublished at 13:00 25 March  
  13:00 25 March  
  We asked you what the most irritating thing at your club has been this season, whether it be inconsistency, injuries or a player failing to deliver.  
  Here are some of your replies:  
  Rob: Manchester United have been woeful this season. I've been watching the capitulation when things have gone against them and seeing some matches when some players just don't seem bothered. Rashford looks uninterested sometimes and then, frustratingly, after all of it, when it's so obvious that it's happening, Ten Hag comes out and defends them.  
  Richard: Style of play is poor, in fact there doesn't appear to be one. I don't expect United to win every trophy they are in or challenge for the league at this moment, but I do wish the team would get me off my seat by playing exciting football and scoring lots of goals. It is so frustrating watching United - it is boring at the minute.  
  Iain: Inconsistency has been a killer for United this year, especially at the beginning of the season. There are plenty of factors that have brought this about: injuries to last year's key players, squad depth/true quality issues, too much spent on too few players and a distracting sale process. Hopefully, the new structure will help Erik next year.  
  'I am still unconvinced by Maguire' for Englandpublished at 11:22 25 March  
  11:22 25 March  
  BBC Sport's chief football writer Phil McNulty has been taking your questions on the Premier League and those players on international duty.  
  Vicky Gaskin asked: Are you surprised at just how loyal Gareth Southgate is to Harry Maguire? He looked shaky again against Brazil on Saturday and he’s had limited game time at Manchester United this season.  
  Phil replied: No, I’m not surprised, Vicky, because Gareth Southgate is very loyal to those he believes have delivered for him - although I am still unconvinced by Maguire for this summer's Euros.  
  Maguire made a passionate defence of his England record last week and he has every right to do that seeing as he played in a team that reached the World Cup semi-final in 2018, the final of Euro 2020 and then the 2022 World Cup quarter-final.  
  I do feel that area might be a weak link at Euro 2024 but at the moment no big alternative jumps out and Southgate is a big fan of Maguire’s partnership with John Stones. He also feels Maguire has never let him down for England and sees no need, at this stage, to consider replacing him.  
  Gossip: Neves and Rabiot on United's radarpublished at 07:38 25 March  
  07:38 25 March  
  Manchester United are targeting Benfica and Portugal midfielder Joao Neves, 19, as one of their summer priorities, but could also move for Juventus' 28-year-old France international Adrien Rabiot as a more affordable option. (Caught Offside), external  
  Manchester City are keeping track of developments concerning Everton centre-back Jarrad Branthwaite, with United, Tottenham and Real Madrid also interested in the 21-year-old. (Mail), external  
  United have been linked with selling Scott McTominay but actually plan to keep the but the club plan to keep the midfielder and give him an improved contract. (Star), external  
  Meanwhile, the Red Devils could try to sign 19-year-old Senegal defender Mikayil Faye from Barcelona in the summer. (Mail), external  
  The left-hand-side 'dilemma' - England XI for Euros - published at 17:19 22 March  
  17:19 22 March  
  England do not have a natural player who would be our obvious number one on the left-hand-side and it is a slight concern given it is not as clear-cut as other areas of the pitch.  
  Do you play Phil Foden out on the left and bring and let Kobbie Mainoo, Conor Gallagher or Kalvin Phillips force their way in? This is my dilemma.  
  If we are talking on current form then Cole Palmer gets the nod from me. Ideally you would not want to play Palmer in that position, but he has done it before.  
  Foden could go central or off the left-hand-side.  
  Manchester United's Marcus Rashford is also an extremely experienced player who can play in that role. He just needs a good eight remaining weeks of the season.  
  There is one other curveball. Does Gareth Southgate see Trent Alexander-Arnold in that other midfield spot? If he does, then that would release Foden out on to the left.  
  We also know Jack Grealish can play off that left-hand-side but he needs to get back from injury because he could be a late push for that position as well. He has got to get back and play some minutes for Manchester City, but he could fit there.  
  We’re going to see Gareth Southgate’s hand in these next two friendlies. Let’s see how he starts against Brazil. Will he use it to work on that midfield three and use Declan Rice, Jude Bellingham and Foden?  
  Michael Brown was speaking to BBC Sport's Katie Stafford  
  'Easy wins' for Ratcliffe so farpublished at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  BBC Sport's Simon Stone feels "easy wins" have been achieved by Sir Jim Ratcliffe during his time at Manchester United so far.  
  Stone formed part of the discussion on BBC World Service as Sportsworld delivered a special on whether Ratcliffe can help take United back to the top.  
  "Someone said to me 'Sir Jim Ratcliffe is doing all the right things – but he’s not had to do anything yet,'" said Stone.  
  "What he’s done are easy wins, talking to the fans, but the Glazers have just not done it. By doing it it gets him ahead of the game. He’s saying all the right things about the stadium and about knocking Liverpool and Manchester City off their perch. Saying them is the easy bit, doing it is a different matter entirely.  
  "To beat Liverpool and Manchester City over a consistent period of time, that is going to mean a lot of good decisions need to be made. A lot of money will need to be spent far more wisely than it was before Ten Hag came in and since he’s been here. That is a massive change at this football club and what Sir Jim Ratcliffe will be judged on."  
  Manchester United have started adapting their teams behind the scenes under Ratcliffe, with Omar Berrada due to arrive from Manchester City as chief executive and Dan Ashworth set to move into a sporting director role.  
  Stone says ultimately, changes to the teams off the field must be accompanied by the execution of decisions and details in real time.  
  "Everything in football, everything, comes down to recruitment," said Stone.  
  "If you don’t have the right players, in the right system, managed by the right person, you will fail."  
  Does Mainoo force his way in?published at 15:03 22 March  
  15:03 22 March  
  Will Kobbie Mainoo pounce on "uncertainty" in England's midfield to grab a place at the European Championships?  
  "Time will tell but he’s going to have to play extremely well for Manchester United in the remaining games and convince the manager that he’s going to have that aura plus level of composure and calmness," said pundit Michael Brown.  
  "He’s got everything going for him it’s just whether it’s a little bit early.”  
  'The aura around the stadium has been different' since Ratcliffe arrivedpublished at 15:02 22 March  
  15:02 22 March  
  Manchester United fan and presenter of The United Stand, Beth Tucker, says fans have felt "the positivity on the horizon" since Sir Jim Ratcliffe's takeover.  
  Ratcliffe, who now controls the football operation side of the club, agreed to buy a 25% stake on 24 December 2023 for £1.03bn.  
  "There has definitely been a massive lift since Ratcliffe came into the club, there is no doubt about that," said Tucker on the Sportsworld from BBC World Service.  
  "On the pitch it has been a turbulent season and it has overall been poor, but we have also seen the little glimmers of hope that we can turn it around.  
  "Since Ratcliffe came into the club, the aura around the stadium and within the fan base has been different and I think fans can feel the positivity on the horizon."  
  United are sixth in the Premier League and nine points behind Aston Villa who occupy the fourth and final Champions League place.  
  Red Devils boss Erik ten Hag is yet to win any silverware this season, with his final chance being the FA Cup where they will play Coventry City for a place in a consecutive final.  
  Liverpool will visit Man Utd and Merseyside rivals Everton while Tottenham host Arsenal in the North London derby all exclusively live on Sky Sports in April.  
  England manager Gareth Southgate says he won't speak to any clubs about jobs ahead of Euro 2024.  
  The FA Cup semi-finals schedule has been revealed with Man City and their opponents Chelsea, plus Man Utd and Coventry, finding out when they'll meet at Wembley...  
  Gareth Southgate has been linked with replacing Erik ten Hag at Manchester United this summer - but would he be a good fit at Old Trafford?  
  Gerard Pique has fronted several ventures but having hung up his boots following 18 years at the top of the professional game, he is confident he has backed a winner.  
  Adam Bate on why, for all the off-field distractions, the biggest problem facing Erik ten Hag remains the lack of clarity over the team’s style of play.  
  Kobbie Mainoo and ‘the arrogance of timing’ – former Man Utd coach explains why midfielder appears to have so much time on the ball  
  Erik ten Hag describes the potential of his Man Utd squad as "very high" but tells Sky Sports the key message he is giving to his rising stars…  
  Jadon Sancho's exit puts the spotlight on the struggles of another expensive Man Utd winger but are expectations of Antony as outsized as his fee?  
  This article is about the men's professional football team. For the women's team associated to the same club, see Manchester United W.F.C. For the independent club established by supporters, see F.C. United of Manchester.  
  Manchester United Football Club, commonly referred to as Man United (often stylised as Man Utd), or simply United, is a professional football club based in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester, England. The club competes in the Premier League, the top division in the English football league system. Nicknamed the Red Devils, they were founded as Newton Heath LYR Football Club in 1878, but changed their name to Manchester United in 1902. After a spell playing in Clayton, Manchester, the club moved to their current stadium, Old Trafford, in 1910.  
  History  
  Early years (1878–1945)  
  Manchester United was formed in 1878 as Newton Heath LYR Football Club by the Carriage and Wagon department of the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway (LYR) depot at Newton Heath.[16] The team initially played games against other departments and railway companies, but on 20 November 1880, they competed in their first recorded match; wearing the colours of the railway company – green and gold – they were defeated 6–0 by Bolton Wanderers' reserve team.[17] By 1888, the club had become a founding member of The Combination, a regional football league. Following the league's dissolution after only one season, Newton Heath joined the newly formed 'Football Alliance', which ran for three seasons before being merged with The Football League. This resulted in the club starting the 1892–93 season in the First Division, by which time it had become independent of the railway company and dropped the "LYR" from its name.[16] After two seasons, the club was relegated to the Second Division.[16]  
  In January 1902, with debts of £2,670 – equivalent to £310,000 in 2024[nb 1] – the club was served with a winding-up order.[18] Captain Harry Stafford found four local businessmen, including John Henry Davies (who became club president), each willing to invest £500 in return for a direct interest in running the club and who subsequently changed the name;[19] on 24 April 1902, Manchester United was officially born.[20][nb 2] Under Ernest Mangnall, who assumed managerial duties in 1903, the team finished as Second Division runners-up in 1906 and secured promotion to the First Division, which they won in 1908 – the club's first league title. The following season began with victory in the first ever Charity Shield[21] and ended with the club's first FA Cup title. Manchester United won the First Division for the second time in 1911, but at the end of the following season, Mangnall left the club to join Manchester City.[22]  
  In 1922, three years after the resumption of football following the First World War, the club was relegated to the Second Division, where it remained until regaining promotion in 1925. Relegated again in 1931, Manchester United became a yo-yo club, achieving its all-time lowest position of 20th place in the Second Division in 1934. Following the death of principal benefactor John Henry Davies in October 1927, the club's finances deteriorated to the extent that Manchester United would likely have gone bankrupt had it not been for James W. Gibson, who, in December 1931, invested £2,000 and assumed control of the club.[23] In the 1938–39 season, the last year of football before the Second World War, the club finished 14th in the First Division.[23]  
  Busby years (1945–1969)  
  In October 1945, the impending resumption of football after the war led to the managerial appointment of Matt Busby, who demanded an unprecedented level of control over team selection, player transfers and training sessions.[24] Busby led the team to second-place league finishes in 1947, 1948 and 1949, and to FA Cup victory in 1948. In 1952, the club won the First Division, its first league title for 41 years.[25] They then won back-to-back league titles in 1956 and 1957; the squad, who had an average age of 22, were nicknamed "the Busby Babes" by the media, a testament to Busby's faith in his youth players.[26] In 1957, Manchester United became the first English team to compete in the European Cup, despite objections from The Football League, who had denied Chelsea the same opportunity the previous season.[27] En route to the semi-final, which they lost to Real Madrid, the team recorded a 10–0 victory over Belgian champions Anderlecht, which remains the club's biggest victory on record.[28]  
  Assistant manager Jimmy Murphy took over as manager while Busby recovered from his injuries and the club's makeshift side reached the FA Cup final, which they lost to Bolton Wanderers. In recognition of the team's tragedy, UEFA invited the club to compete in the 1958–59 European Cup alongside eventual League champions Wolverhampton Wanderers. Despite approval from The Football Association, The Football League determined that the club should not enter the competition, since it had not qualified.[31][32] Busby rebuilt the team through the 1960s by signing players such as Denis Law and Pat Crerand, who combined with the next generation of youth players – including George Best – to win the FA Cup in 1963. The following season, they finished second in the league, then won the title in 1965 and 1967. In 1968, Manchester United became the first English club to win the European Cup, beating Benfica 4–1 in the final[33] with a team that contained three European Footballers of the Year: Bobby Charlton, Denis Law and George Best.[34] They then represented Europe in the 1968 Intercontinental Cup against Estudiantes of Argentina, but defeat in the first leg in Buenos Aires meant a 1–1 draw at Old Trafford three weeks later was not enough to claim the title. Busby resigned as manager in 1969 before being replaced by the reserve team coach, former Manchester United player Wilf McGuinness.[35]  
  1969–1986  
  Following an eighth-place finish in the 1969–70 season and a poor start to the 1970–71 season, Busby was persuaded to temporarily resume managerial duties, and McGuinness returned to his position as reserve team coach. In June 1971, Frank O'Farrell was appointed as manager, but lasted less than 18 months before being replaced by Tommy Docherty in December 1972.[37] Docherty saved Manchester United from relegation that season, only to see them relegated in 1974; by that time the trio of Best, Law, and Charlton had left the club.[33] The team won promotion at the first attempt and reached the FA Cup final in 1976, but were beaten by Southampton. They reached the final again in 1977, beating Liverpool 2–1. Docherty was dismissed shortly afterwards, following the revelation of his affair with the club physiotherapist's wife.[35][38]  
  Dave Sexton replaced Docherty as manager in the summer of 1977. Despite major signings, including Joe Jordan, Gordon McQueen, Gary Bailey, and Ray Wilkins, the team failed to win any trophies; they finished second in 1979–80 and lost to Arsenal in the 1979 FA Cup final. Sexton was dismissed in 1981, even though the team won the last seven games under his direction.[39] He was replaced by Ron Atkinson, who immediately broke the British record transfer fee to sign Bryan Robson from his former club West Bromwich Albion. Under Atkinson, Manchester United won the FA Cup in 1983 and 1985 and beat rivals Liverpool to win the 1983 Charity Shield. In 1985–86, after 13 wins and two draws in its first 15 matches, the club was favourite to win the league but finished in fourth place. The following season, with the club in danger of relegation by November, Atkinson was dismissed.[40]  
  Ferguson years (1986–2013)  
  Alex Ferguson and his assistant Archie Knox arrived from Aberdeen on the day of Atkinson's dismissal,[41] and guided the club to an 11th-place finish in the league.[42] Despite a second-place finish in 1987–88, the club was back in 11th place the following season.[43] Reportedly on the verge of being dismissed, Ferguson's job was saved by victory over Crystal Palace in the 1990 FA Cup final.[44][45] The following season, Manchester United claimed their first UEFA Cup Winners' Cup title. That triumph allowed the club to compete in the European Super Cup for the first time, where United beat European Cup holders Red Star Belgrade 1–0 at Old Trafford. The club appeared in two consecutive League Cup finals in 1991 and 1992, beating Nottingham Forest 1–0 in the second to win that competition for the first time as well.[40] In 1993, in the first season of the newly founded Premier League, the club won their first league title since 1967, and a year later, for the first time since 1957, they won a second consecutive title – alongside the FA Cup – to complete the first "Double" in the club's history.[40] United then became the first English club to do the Double twice when they won both competitions again in 1995–96,[46] before retaining the league title once more in 1996–97 with a game to spare.[47]  
  Manchester United won the league again in the 1999–2000 and 2000–01 seasons, becoming only the fourth club to win the English title three times in a row. The team finished third in 2001–02, before regaining the title in 2002–03.[53] They won the 2003–04 FA Cup, beating Millwall 3–0 in the final at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff to lift the trophy for a record 11th time.[54] In the 2005–06 season, Manchester United failed to qualify for the knockout phase of the UEFA Champions League for the first time in over a decade,[55] but recovered to secure a second-place league finish and victory over Wigan Athletic in the 2006 Football League Cup final. The club regained the Premier League title in the 2006–07 season, before completing the European double in 2007–08 with a 6–5 penalty shoot-out victory over Chelsea in the 2008 UEFA Champions League final in Moscow to go with their 17th English league title. Ryan Giggs made a record 759th appearance for the club in that game, overtaking previous record holder Bobby Charlton.[56] In December 2008, the club became the first British team to win the FIFA Club World Cup after beating LDU Quito 1–0 in the final. Manchester United followed this with the 2008–09 Football League Cup, and its third successive Premier League title.[57][58] That summer, forward Cristiano Ronaldo was sold to Real Madrid for a world record £80 million.[59] In 2010, Manchester United defeated Aston Villa 2–1 at Wembley to retain the League Cup, its first successful defence of a knockout cup competition.[60]  
  After finishing as runners-up to Chelsea in the 2009–10 season, United achieved a record 19th league title in 2010–11, securing the championship with a 1–1 away draw against Blackburn Rovers on 14 May 2011.[61] This was extended to 20 league titles in 2012–13, securing the championship with a 3–0 home win against Aston Villa on 22 April 2013.[62]  
  2013–present  
  On 8 May 2013, Ferguson announced that he was to retire as manager at the end of the football season, but would remain at the club as a director and club ambassador.[63][64] He retired as the most decorated manager in football history.[65][66] The club announced the next day that Everton manager David Moyes would replace him from 1 July, having signed a six-year contract.[67][68][69] Ryan Giggs took over as interim player-manager 10 months later, on 22 April 2014, when Moyes was sacked after a poor season in which the club failed to defend their Premier League title and failed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since 1995–96.[70] They also failed to qualify for the UEFA Europa League, the first time Manchester United had not qualified for a European competition since 1990.[71] On 19 May 2014, it was confirmed that Louis van Gaal would replace Moyes as Manchester United manager on a three-year deal, with Giggs as his assistant.[72] Malcolm Glazer, the patriarch of the family that owns the club, died on 28 May 2014.[73]  
  Under Van Gaal, United won a 12th FA Cup, but a disappointing slump in the middle of his second season led to rumours of the board sounding out potential replacements.[74] Van Gaal was ultimately sacked just two days after the cup final victory, with United having finished fifth in the league.[75] Former Porto, Chelsea, Inter Milan and Real Madrid manager José Mourinho was appointed in his place on 27 May 2016.[76] Mourinho signed a three-year contract, and in his first season won the FA Community Shield, EFL Cup and UEFA Europa League. Wayne Rooney scored his 250th goal for United, a stoppage-time equaliser in a league game against Stoke City in January 2017, surpassing Sir Bobby Charlton as the club's all-time top scorer.[77] The following season, United finished second in the league – their highest league placing since 2013 – but were still 19 points behind rivals Manchester City. Mourinho also guided the club to a 19th FA Cup final, but they lost 1–0 to Chelsea. On 18 December 2018, with United in sixth place in the Premier League table, 19 points behind leaders Liverpool and 11 points outside the Champions League places, Mourinho was sacked after 144 games in charge. The following day, former United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjær was appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the season.[78] On 28 March 2019, after winning 14 of his first 19 matches in charge, Solskjær was appointed permanent manager on a three-year deal.[79]  
  On 18 April 2021, Manchester United announced they were joining 11 other European clubs as founding members of the European Super League, a proposed 20-team competition intended to rival the UEFA Champions League.[80] The announcement drew a significant backlash from supporters, other clubs, media partners, sponsors, players and the UK Government, forcing the club to withdraw just two days later.[81][82][83][84][85] The failure of the project led to the resignation of executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward, while resultant protests against Woodward and the Glazer family led to a pitch invasion ahead of a league match against Liverpool on 2 May 2021, which saw the first postponement of a Premier League game due to supporter protests in the competition's history.[86][87]  
  On the pitch, United equalled their own record for the biggest win in Premier League history with a 9–0 win over Southampton on 2 February 2021,[88] but ended the season with defeat on penalties in the UEFA Europa League final against Villarreal, going four straight seasons without a trophy.[89] On 20 November 2021, Solskjær left his role as manager.[90] Former midfielder Michael Carrick took charge for the next three games, before the appointment of Ralf Rangnick as interim manager until the end of the season.[91]  
  On 21 April 2022, Erik ten Hag was appointed as the manager from the end of the 2021–22 season, signing a contract until June 2025 with the option of extending for a further year.[92] Ten Hag won Manchester United the 2022–23 EFL Cup against Newcastle United, winning 2–0.[93] On 5 March 2023, the club suffered their joint-heaviest defeat, losing 7–0 to rivals Liverpool at Anfield.[94]  
  The club crest is derived from the Manchester City Council coat of arms, although all that remains of it on the current crest is the ship in full sail.[95] The devil stems from the club's nickname "The Red Devils" inspired from Salford Rugby Club;[96][97] it was included on club programmes and scarves in the 1960s, and incorporated into the club crest in 1970, although the crest was not included on the chest of the shirt until 1971.[95] In 1975, the red devil ("A devil facing the sinister guardant supporting with both hands a trident gules") was granted as a heraldic badge by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by Manchester United.[98] In 2023, the Red Devil motif alone, which had been used in promotional items and merchandise previously, was used as the sole badge on the Manchester United third kit. The existing crest remains on the home and away kits.  
  Newton Heath's uniform in 1879, four years before the club played its first competitive match, has been documented as 'white with blue cord'.[99] A photograph of the Newton Heath team, taken in 1892, is believed to show the players wearing red-and-white quartered jerseys and navy blue knickerbockers.[100] Between 1894 and 1896, the players wore green and gold jerseys[100] which were replaced in 1896 by white shirts, which were worn with navy blue shorts.[100]  
  After the name change in 1902, the club colours were changed to red shirts, white shorts, and black socks, which has become the standard Manchester United home kit.[100] Very few changes were made to the kit until 1922 when the club adopted white shirts bearing a deep red "V" around the neck, similar to the shirt worn in the 1909 FA Cup final. They remained part of their home kits until 1927.[100] For a period in 1934, the cherry and white hooped change shirt became the home colours, but the following season the red shirt was recalled after the club's lowest ever league placing of 20th in the Second Division and the hooped shirt dropped back to being the change.[100]  
  The black socks were changed to white from 1959 to 1965, where they were replaced with red socks up until 1971 with white used on occasion, when the club reverted to black. Black shorts and white socks are sometimes worn with the home strip, most often in away games, if there is a clash with the opponent's kit. For 2018–19, black shorts and red socks became the primary choice for the home kit.[101] Since 1997–98, white socks have been the preferred choice for European games, which are typically played on weeknights, to aid with player visibility.[102] The current home kit is a red shirt with Adidas' trademark three stripes in red on the shoulders, white shorts, and black socks.[103]  
  The Manchester United away strip has often been a white shirt, black shorts and white socks, but there have been several exceptions. These include an all-black strip with blue and gold trimmings between 1993 and 1995, the navy blue shirt with silver horizontal pinstripes worn during the 1999–2000 season,[104] and the 2011–12 away kit, which had a royal blue body and sleeves with hoops made of small midnight navy blue and black stripes, with black shorts and blue socks.[105] An all-grey away kit worn during the 1995–96 season was dropped after just five games; in its final outing against Southampton, Alex Ferguson instructed the team to change into the third kit during half-time. The reason for dropping it being that the players claimed to have trouble finding their teammates against the crowd, United failed to win a competitive game in the kit in five attempts.[106] In 2001, to celebrate 100 years as "Manchester United", a reversible white and gold away kit was released, although the actual match day shirts were not reversible.[107]  
  The club's third kit is often all-blue; this was most recently the case during the 2014–15 season.[108] Exceptions include a green-and-gold halved shirt worn between 1992 and 1994, a blue-and-white striped shirt worn during the 1994–95 and 1995–96 seasons and once in 1996–97, an all-black kit worn during the Treble-winning 1998–99 season, and a white shirt with black-and-red horizontal pinstripes worn between 2003–04 and 2005–06.[109] From 2006–07 to 2013–14, the third kit was the previous season's away kit, albeit updated with the new club sponsor in 2006–07 and 2010–11, apart from the 2008–09 season, when an all-blue kit was launched to mark the 40th anniversary of the 1967–68 European Cup success.[110]  
  Grounds  
  United's current ground, Old Trafford, after its expansion in 2006  
  1878–1893: North Road  
  Newton Heath initially played on a field on North Road, close to the railway yard; the original capacity was about 12,000, but club officials deemed the facilities inadequate for a club hoping to join The Football League.[111] Some expansion took place in 1887, and in 1891, Newton Heath used its minimal financial reserves to purchase two grandstands, each able to hold 1,000 spectators.[112] Although attendances were not recorded for many of the earliest matches at North Road, the highest documented attendance was approximately 15,000 for a First Division match against Sunderland on 4 March 1893.[113] A similar attendance was also recorded for a friendly match against Gorton Villa on 5 September 1889.[114]  
  1893–1910: Bank Street  
  In June 1893, after the club was evicted from North Road by its owners, Manchester Deans and Canons, who felt it was inappropriate for the club to charge an entry fee to the ground, secretary A. H. Albut procured the use of the Bank Street ground in Clayton.[115] It initially had no stands, by the start of the 1893–94 season, two had been built; one spanning the full length of the pitch on one side and the other behind the goal at the "Bradford end". At the opposite end, the "Clayton end", the ground had been "built up, thousands thus being provided for".[115] Newton Heath's first league match at Bank Street was played against Burnley on 1 September 1893, when 10,000 people saw Alf Farman score a hat-trick, Newton Heath's only goals in a 3–2 win. The remaining stands were completed for the following league game against Nottingham Forest three weeks later.[115] In October 1895, before the visit of Manchester City, the club purchased a 2,000-capacity stand from the Broughton Rangers rugby league club, and put up another stand on the "reserved side" (as distinct from the "popular side"); however, weather restricted the attendance for the Manchester City match to just 12,000.[116]  
  When the Bank Street ground was temporarily closed by bailiffs in 1902, club captain Harry Stafford raised enough money to pay for the club's next away game at Bristol City and found a temporary ground at Harpurhey for the next reserves game against Padiham.[117] Following financial investment, new club president John Henry Davies paid £500 for the erection of a new 1,000-seat stand at Bank Street.[118] Within four years, the stadium had cover on all four sides, as well as the ability to hold approximately 50,000 spectators, some of whom could watch from the viewing gallery atop the Main Stand.[118]  
  1910–present: Old Trafford  
  Following Manchester United's first league title in 1908 and the FA Cup a year later, it was decided that Bank Street was too restrictive for Davies' ambition;[118] in February 1909, six weeks before the club's first FA Cup title, Old Trafford was named as the home of Manchester United, following the purchase of land for around £60,000. Architect Archibald Leitch was given a budget of £30,000 for construction; original plans called for seating capacity of 100,000, though budget constraints forced a revision to 77,000.[119][120] The building was constructed by Messrs Brameld and Smith of Manchester. The stadium's record attendance was registered on 25 March 1939, when an FA Cup semi-final between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town drew 76,962 spectators.[121]  
  Bombing in the Second World War destroyed much of the stadium; the central tunnel in the South Stand was all that remained of that quarter. After the war, the club received compensation from the War Damage Commission in the amount of £22,278. While reconstruction took place, the team played its "home" games at Manchester City's Maine Road ground; Manchester United was charged £5,000 per year, plus a nominal percentage of gate receipts.[122] Later improvements included the addition of roofs, first to the Stretford End and then to the North and East Stands. The roofs were supported by pillars that obstructed many fans' views, and they were eventually replaced with a cantilevered structure. The Stretford End was the last stand to receive a cantilevered roof, completed in time for the 1993–94 season.[35] First used on 25 March 1957 and costing £40,000, four 180-foot (55 m) pylons were erected, each housing 54 individual floodlights. These were dismantled in 1987 and replaced by a lighting system embedded in the roof of each stand, which remains in use today.[123]  
  The Taylor Report's requirement for an all-seater stadium lowered capacity at Old Trafford to around 44,000 by 1993. In 1995, the North Stand was redeveloped into three tiers, restoring capacity to approximately 55,000. At the end of the 1998–99 season, second tiers were added to the East and West Stands, raising capacity to around 67,000, and between July 2005 and May 2006, 8,000 more seats were added via second tiers in the north-west and north-east quadrants. Part of the new seating was used for the first time on 26 March 2006, when an attendance of 69,070 became a new Premier League record.[124] The record was pushed steadily upwards before reaching its peak on 31 March 2007, when 76,098 spectators saw Manchester United beat Blackburn Rovers 4–1, with just 114 seats (0.15 per cent of the total capacity of 76,212) unoccupied.[125] In 2009, reorganisation of the seating resulted in a reduction of capacity by 255 to 75,957.[126][127] Manchester United has the second highest average attendance of European football clubs only behind Borussia Dortmund.[128][129][130] In 2021 United co-chairman Joel Glazer said that "early-stage planning work" for the redevelopment of Old Trafford was underway. This followed "increasing criticism" over the lack of development of the ground since 2006.[131]  
  Support  
  Manchester United is one of the most popular football clubs in the world, with one of the highest average home attendances in Europe.[132] The club states that its worldwide fan base includes more than 200 officially recognised branches of the Manchester United Supporters Club (MUSC), in at least 24 countries.[133] The club takes advantage of this support through its worldwide summer tours. Accountancy firm and sports industry consultants Deloitte estimate that Manchester United has 75 million fans worldwide.[11] The club has the third highest social media following in the world among sports teams (after Barcelona and Real Madrid), with over 82 million Facebook followers as of July 2023.[12][134] A 2014 study showed that Manchester United had the loudest fans in the Premier League.[135]  
  Rivalries  
  Manchester United have rivalries with Arsenal, Leeds United, Liverpool, and Manchester City, against whom they contest the Manchester derby.[138][139]  
  The rivalry with Liverpool is rooted in competition between the cities during the Industrial Revolution, when Manchester was famous for its textile industry while Liverpool was a major port.[140] The two clubs are the most successful English teams in both domestic and international competitions; and between them they have won 39 league titles, 9 European Cups, 4 UEFA Cups, 5 UEFA Super Cups, 20 FA Cups, 14 League Cups, 2 FIFA Club World Cups, 1 Intercontinental Cup and 37 FA Community Shields.[6][141][142] Ranked the two biggest clubs in England by France Football magazine based on metrics such as fanbase and historical importance,[143] Manchester United v Liverpool is considered to be the most famous fixture in English football and one of the biggest rivalries in the football world.[144][145][146][147] No player has been transferred between the clubs since 1964.[148] Former Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson said in 2002, "My greatest challenge was knocking Liverpool right off their fucking perch".[149]  
  The rivalry with Arsenal arises from the numerous times the two teams, as well as managers Alex Ferguson and Arsène Wenger, have battled for the Premier League title. With 33 titles between them (20 for Manchester United, 13 for Arsenal) this fixture has become known as one of the finest Premier League match-ups in history.[151][152]  
  Global brand  
  Manchester United has been described as a global brand; a 2011 report by Brand Finance, valued the club's trademarks and associated intellectual property at £412 million – an increase of £39 million on the previous year, valuing it at £11 million more than the second best brand, Real Madrid – and gave the brand a strength rating of AAA (Extremely Strong).[153] In July 2012, Manchester United was ranked first by Forbes magazine in its list of the ten most valuable sports team brands, valuing the Manchester United brand at $2.23 billion.[154] The club is ranked third in the Deloitte Football Money League (behind Real Madrid and Barcelona).[155] In January 2013, the club became the first sports team in the world to be valued at $3 billion.[156] Forbes magazine valued the club at $3.3 billion – $1.2 billion higher than the next most valuable sports team.[156] They were overtaken by Real Madrid for the next four years, but Manchester United returned to the top of the Forbes list in June 2017, with a valuation of $3.689 billion.[157]  
  The core strength of Manchester United's global brand is often attributed to Matt Busby's rebuilding of the team and subsequent success following the Munich air disaster, which drew worldwide acclaim.[137] The "iconic" team included Bobby Charlton and Nobby Stiles (members of England's World Cup winning team), Denis Law and George Best. The attacking style of play adopted by this team (in contrast to the defensive-minded "catenaccio" approach favoured by the leading Italian teams of the era) "captured the imagination of the English footballing public".[158] Busby's team also became associated with the liberalisation of Western society during the 1960s; George Best, known as the "Fifth Beatle" for his iconic haircut, was the first footballer to significantly develop an off-the-field media profile.[158]  
  As the second English football club to float on the London Stock Exchange in 1991, the club raised significant capital, with which it further developed its commercial strategy. The club's focus on commercial and sporting success brought significant profits in an industry often characterised by chronic losses.[159] The strength of the Manchester United brand was bolstered by intense off-the-field media attention to individual players, most notably David Beckham (who quickly developed his own global brand). This attention often generates greater interest in on-the-field activities, and hence generates sponsorship opportunities – the value of which is driven by television exposure.[160] During his time with the club, Beckham's popularity across Asia was integral to the club's commercial success in that part of the world.[161]  
  Because higher league placement results in a greater share of television rights, success on the field generates greater income for the club. Since the inception of the Premier League, Manchester United has received the largest share of the revenue generated from the BSkyB broadcasting deal.[162] Manchester United has also consistently enjoyed the highest commercial income of any English club; in 2005–06, the club's commercial arm generated £51 million, compared to £42.5 million at Chelsea, £39.3 million at Liverpool, £34 million at Arsenal and £27.9 million at Newcastle United. A key sponsorship relationship was with sportswear company Nike, who managed the club's merchandising operation as part of a £303 million 13-year partnership between 2002 and 2015.[163] Through Manchester United Finance and the club's membership scheme, One United, those with an affinity for the club can purchase a range of branded goods and services. Additionally, Manchester United-branded media services – such as the club's dedicated television channel, MUTV – have allowed the club to expand its fan base to those beyond the reach of its Old Trafford stadium.[11]  
  In an initial five-year deal worth £500,000, Sharp Electronics became the club's first shirt sponsor at the beginning of the 1982–83 season, a relationship that lasted until the end of the 1999–2000 season, when Vodafone agreed a four-year, £30 million deal.[165] Vodafone agreed to pay £36 million to extend the deal by four years, but after two seasons triggered a break clause in order to concentrate on its sponsorship of the Champions League.[165]  
  To commence at the start of the 2006–07 season, American insurance corporation AIG agreed a four-year £56.5 million deal which in September 2006 became the most valuable in the world.[166][167] At the beginning of the 2010–11 season, American reinsurance company Aon became the club's principal sponsor in a four-year deal reputed to be worth approximately £80 million, making it the most lucrative shirt sponsorship deal in football history.[168] Manchester United announced their first training kit sponsor in August 2011, agreeing a four-year deal with DHL reported to be worth £40 million; it is believed to be the first instance of training kit sponsorship in English football.[169][170] The DHL contract lasted for over a year before the club bought back the contract in October 2012, although they remained the club's official logistics partner.[171] The contract for the training kit sponsorship was then sold to Aon in April 2013 for a deal worth £180 million over eight years, which also included purchasing the naming rights for the Trafford Training Centre.[172]  
  The club's first kit manufacturer was Umbro, until a five-year deal was agreed with Admiral Sportswear in 1975.[173] Adidas won the contract in 1980,[174] before Umbro started a second spell in 1992.[175] That sponsorship lasted for ten years, followed by Nike's record-breaking £302.9 million deal, which lasted until 2015; 3.8 million replica shirts were sold in the first 22 months with the company.[176][177] In addition to Nike and Chevrolet, the club also has several lower-level "platinum" sponsors, including Aon and Budweiser.[178]  
  On 30 July 2012, United signed a seven-year deal with American automotive corporation General Motors, which replaced Aon as the shirt sponsor from the 2014–15 season. The new $80m-a-year shirt deal is worth $559m over seven years and features the logo of General Motors brand Chevrolet.[179][180] Nike announced that they would not renew their kit supply deal with Manchester United after the 2014–15 season, citing rising costs.[181][182] Since the start of the 2015–16 season, Adidas has manufactured Manchester United's kit as part of a world-record 10-year deal worth a minimum of £750 million.[183][184] Plumbing products manufacturer Kohler became the club's first sleeve sponsor ahead of the 2018–19 season.[185] Manchester United and General Motors did not renew their sponsorship deal, and the club subsequently signed a five-year, £235m sponsorship deal with TeamViewer ahead of the 2021–22 season.[186]  
  Ownership and finances  
  Originally funded by the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, the club became a limited company in 1892 and sold shares to local supporters for £1 via an application form.[19] In 1902, majority ownership passed to the four local businessmen who invested £500 to save the club from bankruptcy, including future club president John Henry Davies.[19] After his death in 1927, the club faced bankruptcy yet again, but was saved in December 1931 by James W. Gibson, who assumed control of the club after an investment of £2,000.[23] Gibson promoted his son, Alan, to the board in 1948,[187] but died three years later; the Gibson family retained ownership of the club through James' wife, Lillian,[188] but the position of chairman passed to former player Harold Hardman.[189]  
  Promoted to the board a few days after the Munich air disaster, Louis Edwards, a friend of Matt Busby, began acquiring shares in the club; for an investment of approximately £40,000, he accumulated a 54 per cent shareholding and took control in January 1964.[190] When Lillian Gibson died in January 1971, her shares passed to Alan Gibson who sold a percentage of his shares to Louis Edwards' son, Martin, in 1978; Martin Edwards went on to become chairman upon his father's death in 1980.[191] Media tycoon Robert Maxwell attempted to buy the club in 1984, but did not meet Edwards' asking price.[191] In 1989, chairman Martin Edwards attempted to sell the club to Michael Knighton for £20 million, but the sale fell through and Knighton joined the board of directors instead.[191]  
  Manchester United was floated on the stock market in June 1991 (raising £6.7 million),[192] and received yet another takeover bid in 1998, this time from Rupert Murdoch's British Sky Broadcasting Corporation. This resulted in the formation of Shareholders United Against Murdoch – now the Manchester United Supporters' Trust – who encouraged supporters to buy shares in the club in an attempt to block any hostile takeover. The Manchester United board accepted a £623 million offer,[193] but the takeover was blocked by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission at the final hurdle in April 1999.[194] A few years later, a power struggle emerged between the club's manager, Alex Ferguson, and his horse-racing partners, John Magnier and J. P. McManus, who had gradually become the majority shareholders. In a dispute that stemmed from contested ownership of the horse Rock of Gibraltar, Magnier and McManus attempted to have Ferguson removed from his position as manager, and the board responded by approaching investors to attempt to reduce the Irishmen's majority.[195]  
  Glazer ownership  
  In May 2005, Malcolm Glazer purchased the 28.7 per cent stake held by McManus and Magnier, thus acquiring a controlling interest through his investment vehicle Red Football Ltd in a highly leveraged takeover valuing the club at approximately £800 million (then approx. $1.5 billion).[196] Once the purchase was complete, the club was taken off the stock exchange.[197] Much of the takeover money was borrowed by the Glazers; the debts were transferred to the club. As a result, the club went from being debt-free to being saddled with debts of £540 million, at interest rates of between 7% to 20%.[15][198][199]  
  In July 2006, the club announced a £660 million debt refinancing package, resulting in a 30 per cent reduction in annual interest payments to £62 million a year.[200][201] In January 2010, with debts of £716.5 million ($1.17 billion),[202] Manchester United further refinanced through a bond issue worth £504 million, enabling them to pay off most of the £509 million owed to international banks.[203] The annual interest payable on the bonds – which were to mature on 1 February 2017 – is approximately £45 million per annum.[204] Despite restructuring, the club's debt prompted protests from fans on 23 January 2010, at Old Trafford and the club's Trafford Training Centre.[205][206] Supporter groups encouraged match-going fans to wear green and gold, the colours of Newton Heath. On 30 January, reports emerged that the Manchester United Supporters' Trust had held meetings with a group of wealthy fans, dubbed the "Red Knights", with plans to buying out the Glazers' controlling interest.[207] The club's debts reached a high of £777 million in June 2007.[208]  
  In August 2011, the Glazers were believed to have approached Credit Suisse in preparation for a $1 billion (approx. £600 million) initial public offering (IPO) on the Singapore stock exchange that would value the club at more than £2 billion;[209] however, in July 2012, the club announced plans to list its IPO on the New York Stock Exchange instead.[210] Shares were originally set to go on sale for between $16 and $20 each, but the price was cut to $14 by the launch of the IPO on 10 August, following negative comments from Wall Street analysts and Facebook's disappointing stock market debut in May. Even after the cut, Manchester United was valued at $2.3 billion, making it the most valuable football club in the world.[211]  
  The New York Stock Exchange allows for different shareholders to enjoy different voting rights over the club. Shares offered to the public ("Class A") had 10 times lesser voting rights than shares retained by the Glazers ("Class B").[212] Initially in 2012, only 10% of shares were offered to the public.[213] As of 2019, the Glazers retain ultimate control over the club, with over 70% of shares, and even higher voting power.[214]  
  In 2012, The Guardian estimated that the club had paid a total of over £500 million in debt interest and other fees on behalf of the Glazers,[215] and in 2019, reported that the total sum paid by the club for such fees had risen to £1 billion.[199] At the end of 2019, the club had a net debt of nearly £400 million.[216]  
  In 2023, the Glazers began soliciting bids for the sale of the club, and several bids were received. Jim Ratcliffe, who owns INEOS, and Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani, a Qatari sheikh, were the only bidders who had publicly declared their interest in a controlling share of the club.[217] In March 2023, Finnish entrepreneur Thomas Zilliacus also made his interest in Manchester United public.[218]  
  On 24 December 2023, it was announced that Ratcliffe had purchased 25 per cent of Manchester United, and that his INEOS Sport company was taking control of football operations.[219] The Glazers remain as majority shareholders.  
  Players  
  First-team squad  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Under-21s and Academy  
  List of under-21s and academy players with articles  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Out on loan  
  Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.  
  Bryan Glazer Kevin Glazer Edward Glazer Darcie Glazer Kassewitz Robert Leitão John Hooks  
  Honours  
  Manchester United is one of the most successful clubs in Europe in terms of trophies won.[262] The club's first trophy was the Manchester Cup, which they won as Newton Heath LYR in 1886.[263] In 1908, the club won their first league title, and won the FA Cup for the first time the following year. Since then, they have gone on to win a record 20 top-division titles – including a record 13 Premier League titles – and their total of 12 FA Cups is second only to Arsenal (14). Those titles have meant the club has appeared a record 30 times in the FA Community Shield (formerly the FA Charity Shield), which is played at the start of each season between the winners of the league and FA Cup from the previous season; of those 30 appearances, Manchester United have won a record 21, including four times when the match was drawn and the trophy shared by the two clubs.  
  The club had a successful period under the management of Matt Busby, starting with the FA Cup in 1948 and culminating with becoming the first English club to win the European Cup in 1968, winning five league titles in the intervening years. The club's most successful decade, however, came in the 1990s under Alex Ferguson; five league titles, four FA Cups, one League Cup, five Charity Shields (one shared), one UEFA Champions League, one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, one UEFA Super Cup and one Intercontinental Cup. The club has won the Double (winning the Premier League and FA Cup in the same season) three times; the second in 1995–96 saw them become the first club to do so twice, and it became referred to as the "Double Double".[264] United became the sole British club to win the Intercontinental Cup in 1999 and are one of only three British clubs to have won the FIFA Club World Cup, in 2008. In 1999, United became the first English club to win the Treble.[48] In 2017, United won the 2016–17 UEFA Europa League, beating Ajax in the final. In winning that title, United became the fifth club to have won the "European Treble" of European Cup/UEFA Champions League, Cup Winners' Cup, and UEFA Cup/Europa League after Juventus, Ajax, Bayern Munich and Chelsea.[265][266]  
  The club's most recent trophy came in February 2023, with the 2022–23 EFL Cup.[93]  
  Short competitions – such as the FA Charity/Community Shield, Intercontinental Cup (now defunct), FIFA Club World Cup or UEFA Super Cup – are not generally considered to contribute towards a Double or Treble.[267]  
  Manchester United Women  
  A team called Manchester United Supporters Club Ladies began operations in the late 1970s and was unofficially recognised as the club's senior women's team. They became founding members of the North West Women's Regional Football League in 1989.[268] The team made an official partnership with Manchester United in 2001, becoming the club's official women's team; however, in 2005, following Malcolm Glazer's takeover, the club was disbanded as it was seen to be "unprofitable".[269] In 2018, Manchester United formed a new women's football team, which entered the second division of women's football in England for their debut season. 2023 will see that team enter European competition for the first time.[270][271]  
  ^ Sources are divided on the exact date of the meeting and subsequent name change. Whilst official club sources claim that it occurred on 26 April, the meeting was reported by the Manchester Evening Chronicle in its edition of 25 April, suggesting it was indeed on 24 April.  
  ^ Solskjaer was initially appointed as interim manager; he was given the job permanently on 28 March 2019.  
  ^ "Old Trafford". premierleague.com. Premier League. Archived from the original on 5 August 2019. Retrieved 25 August 2022.  
  ^ Glanville, Brian (27 April 2005). "The great Chelsea surrender". The Times. London. Archived from the original on 29 June 2011. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ "Arise Sir Alex?". BBC News. 27 May 1999. Archived from the original on 26 March 2012. Retrieved 2 April 2010.  
  ^ "Knights Bachelor". BBC News. 12 June 1999. Archived from the original on 13 March 2016. Retrieved 19 January 2022.  
  ^ "Man Utd win FA Cup". BBC Sport. 22 May 2004. Archived from the original on 25 February 2009. Retrieved 9 July 2010.  
  ^ McNulty, Phil (16 May 2009). "Man Utd 0–0 Arsenal". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 19 May 2009. Retrieved 16 May 2009.  
  ^ "New blue kit for 08/09". Manchester United. 28 August 2008. Archived from the original on 18 January 2012. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ Bartram, Steve (19 November 2009). "OT100 #9: Record gate". Manchester United. Archived from the original on 16 December 2011. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ "Fans' Forum". Manchester United. Archived from the original on 14 August 2011. Retrieved 3 December 2010.  
  ^ Smith, Martin (15 April 2008). "Bitter rivals do battle". The Daily Telegraph. London. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ Rohrer, Finlo (21 August 2007). "Scouse v Manc". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016. Retrieved 24 June 2010.  
  ^ Aldred, Tanya (22 January 2004). "Rivals uncovered". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 7 November 2015.  
  ^ Ingle, Sean; Murray, Scott (10 May 2000). "Knowledge Unlimited". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 28 October 2009. Retrieved 11 November 2022.  
  ^ Hughes, Ian (23 January 2010). "Man Utd 4–0 Hull". BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 27 March 2012. Retrieved 26 January 2010.  
  ^ "Gore goes out on loan". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. 23 January 2024. Retrieved 24 January 2024.  
  ^ "Oyedele clinches loan move". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. 17 January 2024. Archived from the original on 17 January 2024. Retrieved 17 January 2024.  
  ^ Red Football Shareholder Limited: Group of companies' accounts made up to 30 June 2009. Downloaded from Companies House UK  
  ^ "Board of Directors". ManUtd.com. Manchester United. Archived from the original on 12 June 2023. Retrieved 1 July 2013.  
  Further reading  
  Andrews, David L., ed. (2004). Manchester United: A Thematic Study. London: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-33333-7.  
  Barnes, Justyn; Bostock, Adam; Butler, Cliff; Ferguson, Jim; Meek, David; Mitten, Andy; Pilger, Sam; Taylor, Frank OBE; Tyrrell, Tom (2001) [1998]. The Official Manchester United Illustrated Encyclopedia (3rd ed.). London: Manchester United Books. ISBN 978-0-233-99964-7.  
  Bose, Mihir (2007). Manchester Disunited: Trouble and Takeover at the World's Richest Football Club. London: Aurum Press. ISBN 978-1-84513-121-0.  
  Crick, Michael; Smith, David (1990). Manchester United – The Betrayal of a Legend. London: Pan Books. ISBN 978-0-330-31440-4.  
  Devlin, John (2005). True Colours: Football Kits from 1980 to the Present Day. London: A & C Black. ISBN 978-0-7136-7389-0.  
  Dobson, Stephen; Goddard, John (2004). "Ownership and Finance of Professional Soccer in England and Europe". In Fort, Rodney; Fizel, John (eds.). International Sports Economics Comparisons. Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers. ISBN 978-0-275-98032-0.  
  Hamil, Sean (2008). "Case 9: Manchester United: the Commercial Development of a Global Football Brand". In Chadwick, Simon; Arth, Dave (eds.). International Cases in the Business of Sport. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann. ISBN 978-0-7506-8543-6.  
  Inglis, Simon (1996) [1985]. Football Grounds of Britain (3rd ed.). London: CollinsWillow. ISBN 978-0-00-218426-7.  
  James, Gary (2008). Manchester: A Football History. Halifax: James Ward. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5.  
  Morgan, Steve (March 2010). McLeish, Ian (ed.). "Design for life". Inside United (212). ISSN 1749-6497.  
  Murphy, Alex (2006). The Official Illustrated History of Manchester United. London: Orion Books. ISBN 978-0-7528-7603-0.  
  Shury, Alan; Landamore, Brian (2005). The Definitive Newton Heath F.C. SoccerData. ISBN 978-1-899468-16-4.  
  Tyrrell, Tom; Meek, David (1996) [1988]. The Hamlyn Illustrated History of Manchester United 1878–1996 (5th ed.). London: Hamlyn. ISBN 978-0-600-59074-3.  
  White, Jim (2008). Manchester United: The Biography. London: Sphere. ISBN 978-1-84744-088-4.  
  White, John (2007) [2005]. The United Miscellany (2nd ed.). London: Carlton Books. ISBN 978-1-84442-745-1.  
  External links  
  Official website (in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Japanese, Korean, and Spanish)  
  Manchester United FC  
  Manchester United is one of the most prestigious football clubs and has always maintained a distinguished tradition, a record of consistent success, and a great history. They are together with Liverpool, England's most successful football clubs ever. "The Red Devils" have more national titles than Liverpool, but the rival has collected more titles in international tournaments.  
  Basic facts  
  Founded: 1878 Country: England City: Manchester  
  Home grounds  
  North Road (1978-1880) Bank Street (1893-1910) Old Trafford (1910-)  
  Prominent players  
  Stan Pearson, Johhny Carey, Duncan Edwards, Bobby Charlton, Dennis Viollet, George Best, Denis Law, Gordon Strachan, Bryan Robson, Mark Hughes, Peter Schmeichel, Eric Cantona, Roy Keane, Ryan Giggs, Andy Cole, Dwight Yorke, David Beckham, Paul Scholes, Rio Ferdinand, Cristiano Ronaldo, Wayne Rooney, Robin van Persie, Nemanja Vidic, Zlatan Ibrahimović  
  Club records  
  Most games played: Ryan Giggs (963) Top goalscorer: Bobby Charlton (249)  
  Celebration after FA Cup victory in 1983.  
  History  
  Manchester was one of the fastest growing cities during the Industrial Revolution and much so due to a torrent of workers arriving from different parts of the British Islands. From a relatively small town in the beginning of the 19th century, Manchester had passed one million inhabits by 1900 and had become one of the biggest cities in Europe. It was great conditions for football clubs to emerge; the sport was after all, in its early history to a big degree dominated by workers. The club that later would become Manchester United FC was initially founded in the year 1878, named as Newton Heath L&YR Football Club. L&YR as in Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, which were the company there the team's player worked. The team played in the Football League for the very first time in 1892 (they should not be confused with Manchester Football Club, founded in 1860 and participated in the FA Cup in the 1870s before shifting to Rugby). But, they were relegated after two years. Next, a new group of local businessmen then took over the roles and responsibilities of the club and named it as Manchester United in 1902. The newly named club won the title of English League in 1908 under the guidance of Ernest Mangnall. The first FA Cup trophy was obtained the following year. The team then shifted to the current stadium, Old Trafford in 1910. After the Second World War, the club had witnessed an extended spell with the appointment of Matt Busby in 1945. This visionary leader completely reshaped the club and placed a new faith in youngsters, and this strategy eventually proved to be astonishingly successful. The United team would win the league in 1955–56 and 1956–57. The average age were 21 at the first occasion, which made it the youngest side ever to win the Football League and earned them the nickname the “Busby Babes”.  
  The plane crash  
  One day in 1958 is especially marked in dark colors for the in the history of Manchester United. After a game against Red Star Belgrade in European Cup the United team was flying back to England then disaster struck. After a refuel in Munich the plane crash at the start and eight players and three members of the staff died. But the coach survived the plane crash and he eventually built another great side that won many championship trophies and witnessed poignant victories over the time.  
  Advertisement  
  Shifts of management  
  After that, the team played under Tommy Docherty, who was even more conducive to success. Nevertheless, in 1977 Docherty was replaced by Dave Sexton, who was more cautious. In 1981, he was replaced by Ron Atkinson. Man United line up 1985 FA Cup final v. Everton (1-0).  
  The Alex Ferguson era  
  The club appointed Alex Ferguson as manager in the year 1986. Though it can be pretty hard to believe, however, the first years of Ferguson's coaching were extremely difficult until the team won a victory in the FA Cup in 1990. Over the next twenty years, the club won at least 25 major trophies, including around eleven League titles. Manchester United won the first Double in the year of 1994. Next, it became the first English club to win a Treble while winning the FA Cup, the Premier League, and UEFA Champions League simultaneously during 1998-1999. The team continued the fabulous upswing by beating Palmeiras to become the club world champions. Man United line up in CL final 1999 v. Bayern Munich (2-1).  
  United won three consecutive league titles during the period 1999-2001. One of the most astonishing records is from the 1999/2000 season then they won the league with a 18 points margin.  
  Glazer takeover and "Merchandise United"  
  Between 2003 and 2005, the American businessman Malcolm Glazer bought enough shares to become the new owner of the Manchester club. The new ownership was remarkable unpopular among the fans. But despite the controversial turmoil after the takeover of the Glazer family, the team continued to grow as a great team while maintaining its esteemed tradition and having a huge international follower base. During 2013-2014, it was recognized as the 2nd highest-earning club across the world with an estimated revenue of around €518 million. In fact, it was further named as the third most valuable football club in 2015. The club has been clever in marketing its brand in many fields. Manchester United have been the most successful soccer team in the world to earn money from brand-name products, which have earned them the not so flattering nickname "Merchandise United".  
  Post-Ferguson: period of decline  
  When Alex Ferguson departed permanently from the post he had 1986-2013 the team's result would decline. None of David Moyes, Ryan Giggs and the reputable Louis van Gaal, in the manager role, could repeat the successful Ferguson formula.  
  For the 2016/2017 season José Mourinho was appointed a manager with three years contract. This was a state of the club's ambition to continue to expand its capacity, maintain its on-field success and unbeatable winning record and hold its royal legacy.  
  By Oscar Anderson  
  Advertisement  
  Logo  
  The upper part of the inner shield of the Manchester United crest displays a ship that actually originates from the Manchester City Council coat of arms (a ship can likewise be found on Manchester City’s logo). Below the ship, there is a bigger drawing depicting a devil – the devil was first incorporated on the crest in 1970. A minor change was done in 1998 when "Football Club" was removed from the bottom banner. Instead, the banners only text out "Manchester United".  
  Manchester United FC timeline  
  1878 The club is established (named as Newton Heath). 1883 The first competition takes place against Blackburn Olympic Reserves. 1892 First season in the Football League. 1902 The club is renamed as Manchester United. 1908 First time Division 1 champions. 1909 Winning their first FA Cup title. 1910 The club move to the Old Trafford. 1958 Several club members are killed in an air plane crash. 1960 Dennis Viollet sets a new record with 32 league goals in a season. 1963 Italian Carlo Sartori is signed as the first non-British player. 1968 First European Cup title. 1980 Martin Edwards become chairman of the club. 1986 Alex Ferguson is appointed as manager. 1991 First Cup Winners' Cup title. 1991 Manchester United PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange. 1992 First League Cup title. 1994 Winning their first Double (the League and the FA Cup). 1995 Winning 9–0 against Ipswich Town, a new record winning margin. 1998 Jaap Stam becomes the first player to be transferred for a fee over £10 million. 1999 First Champions League title. 1999 Winning their first Treble (the League, the FA Cup and the Champions League). 2007 The highest attendance is recorded at Old Trafford (76,098 against Blackburn Rovers). 2009 Cristiano Ronaldo is sold to Real Madrid for an £80 million fee. 2017 First time Europa League winners.  
  Manchester United granted permission by UEFA to participate in European competition alongside Nice, despite fears over multi-club ownership  
  Share this with  
  Manchester United have been assured that they will be able to participate in Euoprean competition next season, despite Sir Jim Ratcliffe’s ownership of Ligue 1 club Nice.  
  Under UEFA ruling, two clubs owned by the same owners cannot compete in European competition.  
  The rules stipulate that only one of the two clubs would be able to participate, and that the higher finishing side should be granted entry.  
  As it stands, Nice are fifth in Ligue 1 while United are sixth in the Premier League, meaning the French club would be granted entry to the Europa League over United.  
  Under these circumstances, United would then drop into the Europa Conference League.  
  But the Daily Mail say that UEFA have assured United that they can enter the competition provided they prove there is no overlapping control of both clubs, which would undermine the integrity of the competition.  
  Ratcliffe took over Nice in 2018, while he only has a co-ownership stake in United of 27.7%.  
  Given Ratcliffe has spent just two months at Old Trafford, UEFA are likely to be satisfied that there is not a deep relationship between the two clubs.  
  United still have hopes of qualifying for the Champions League but they trail Aston Villa by nine points, having played a game fewer.  
  England boss Gareth Southgate favourite to replace Erik ten Hag at Manchester United - Paper Talk  
  Plus: Newcastle striker Alexander Isak drops a hint about his future; Man Utd receive assurances from UEFA they will be able to play alongside Nice in the Europa League; Jose Mourinho says he is open to working in Saudi Arabia  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 08:14, UK  
  The top stories and transfer rumours from Wednesday's newspapers...  
  THE SUN  
  Manchester United will look to bring England's entire coaching staff to Old Trafford this summer, SunSport can reveal. Gareth Southgate is now the red-hot favourite to replace Erik ten Hag if the Dutchman is axed at the end of the season.  
  Manchester United fans face travel hell for Saturday's Premier League clash at Brentford because of train strikes.  
  Nike have come under fire for the size of the cockerel emblem on the new France shirt, sparking another kit controversy after they were slammed for changing the colours of the St George's Cross on the new England strip.  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Sky Sports' Peter Smith discusses Erik ten Hag's position in charge of Man Utd and whether it is under threat with new Man Utd investor Sir Jim Ratcliffe reportedly considering hiring England boss Gareth Southgate.  
  DAILY MAIL  
  Chelsea's ever-evolving medical department is set for another addition with the club now seeking a new head of performance medicine amid a Premier League season plagued by injuries.  
  Also See:  
  French World Cup winner Frank Leboeuf has questioned Didier Deschamps for snubbing William Saliba.  
  Manchester United have received assurances from UEFA that they will be allowed to take part in the Europa League next season if Nice also qualify despite the European governing body's restrictions on multi-club ownership.  
  Newcastle star Alexander Isak has dropped a major hint about his future at the club ahead of the summer window admitting 'if things show up, things can happen.'  
  Manchester United reportedly want to speak to Wolves manager Gary O'Neil about a potential coaching role at Old Trafford.  
  The Football Association of Ireland has ruled out Roberto Di Matteo as a candidate for the national team's next permanent manager.  
  Conor Benn's route back to fighting on home soil may have been dealt a blow after UK Anti-Doping and the British Boxing Board of Control won an appeal against the verdict to lift his temporary suspension.  
  DAILY MIRROR  
  Jose Mourinho has suggested he would consider taking a job in Saudi Arabia because Cristiano Ronaldo has opened his eyes to the possibilities in the country.  
  THE GUARDIAN  
  Anti-racism campaigners in Spain have called on the country's institutions to do more to crack down on racism in football, after Real Madrid winger Vinícius Júnior laid bare the personal toll exacted by years of racist insults.  
  THE ATHLETIC  
  Inter Milan defender Francesco Acerbi will face no action after the investigation into an alleged racist remark he made towards Napoli's Juan Jesus conclude there was insufficient evidence to take the matter further.  
  EVENING STANDARD  
  Tottenham defender Cristian Romero has expressed a desire to play for Argentina at the Olympics this summer.  
  THE TIMES  
  Harlequins are increasingly confident that Danny Care will reject a final payday in France and instead sign a contract extension to end his career at the club. The 37-year-old scrum half called time on his England career on Monday having won the last of his 101 caps during the Six Nations.  
  Marcus Rashford has been playing through injury for over a month. The winger has been carrying a "slight knock" since February's FA Cup clash with Nottingham Forest.  
  THE TELEGRAPH  
  Gareth Southgate has defended playing John Stones despite his injury scare for Manchester City.  
  DAILY RECORD  
  Former QPR sporting director Les Ferdinand has revealed how things turned 'toxic' at the London club after Michael Beale left for Rangers in 2022.  
  You can now start receiving messages and alerts for the latest breaking sports news, analysis, in-depth features and videos from our dedicated WhatsApp channel!  
  Please note that we currently do not cover all seasons, so the data may not be complete.  
  → Football League 1/2 Relegation/Promotion Test Matches  
  1990-1991. Manchester United were deducted 1 point for their role in a brawl during their home fixture against Arsenal.  
  Season-by-Season Summary  
  About FBref.com  
  FBref.com launched (June 13, 2018) with domestic league coverage for England, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United States. Since then we have been steadily expanding our coverage to include domestic leagues from over 40 countries as well as domestic cup, super cup and youth leagues from top European countries. We have also added coverage for major international cups such as the UEFA Champions League and Copa Libertadores.  
  FBref is the most complete sources for women's football data on the internet. This includes the entire history of the FIFA Women's World Cup as well as recent domestic league seasons from nine countries, including advanced stats like xG for most of those nine.  
  In collaboration with Opta, we are including advanced analytical data such as xG, xA, progressive passing, duels and more for over twenty competitions. For more information on the expected goals model and which competitions have advanced data, see our xG explainer.  
  View Additional Information  
  Note that player records are likely not complete for their careers. Players may come from or move to leagues we don't currently cover. This issue will go down over time, as we add new leagues and seasons. We will never in the future have less data than we do today.  
  You can sign up to receive an e-mail when new countries and features launch.  
  You are here: FB Home Page > Squads > Manchester United Stats, Records and History  
  Put your football knowledge to the test with our daily football trivia game. Can you complete the grid?  
  All logos are the trademark & property of their owners and not Sports Reference LLC. We present them here for purely educational purposes. Our reasoning for presenting offensive logos.  
  The SPORTS REFERENCE and STATHEAD trademarks are owned exclusively by Sports Reference LLC. Use without license or authorization is expressly prohibited.  
  Sports Reference Purpose: We will be the trusted source of information and tools that inspire and empower users to enjoy, understand, and share the sports they love.  
  Man City moment explains why Manchester United might want Gary O’Neil  
  The latest Manchester United news as the club have been linked with an interest in the Wolves manager who has impressed with the job he has done at Molineux.  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up for our daily newsletter to get the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Speculation over Erik ten Hag’s future at Manchester United and possible replacements for the manager continues to bubbles since the takeover by Sir Jim Ratcliffe, with Wolves boss Gary O’Neil the latest to be linked.  
  It is claimed by ESPN that United ‘want to speak’ to the manager about a role in a new coaching set-up. It’s not specified what that role would be, although it could potentially be the head coach role, given his success in charge of both Bournemouth and Wolves over the last two seasons.  
  O’Neil has led Wolves to ninth place in the Premier League table so far this season. It comes after a campaign where they were looking over their shoulder towards the relegation places.  
  He arrived at Molineux in the summer after controversially being shown the door at Bournemouth. The decision came after he steered the Cherries to Premier League safety.  
  His achievements with the two clubs have caught the eye, with some even suggesting he should be in the conversation among candidates for the manager of the season award in the Premier League. But it may be one thing in particular that O’Neil brings to a role that United are looking for.  
  Speaking on Sky Sports’ Monday Night Football back in October on how he set his Wolves side up to earn a shock result against Man City, O'Neill explained the specific game plan set up to combat Pep Guardiola's side. He said: “I don’t want it to sound like it was a genius plan because it wasn’t, it was a group of players who understood it really, really well.  
  “We tried to keep Daws (Craig Dawson) som cover against (Erling) Haaland, we backed (Max) Kilman when we could until we got down around the goal and we got in a position we knew Daws was comfortable in and Daws would be fine to manage Haaland at that moment. We tried to drop down and reduce the spaces, as most teams do against Manchester City but then we were able to be aggressive from our back five.”  
  The element of his players understanding his instructions well is something that seems to be a strength of O’Neil’s. Speaking to Sky Sports, Wolves defender Toti Gomes praised his manager for the way he gets plans across clearly.  
  "There are little details, the way he explains it, and it really makes a difference,” he said, “When he has been teaching us on the training pitch, it has been very easy to get the information so that afterwards when we go to the pitch, we can do it very easily."  
  With the talent at United’s disposal, having a clear plan for games and a way of getting that over to the players in a way that they can understand could be key for any new manager who comes in. If he can get the best out of players tactically, then that can only be a good thing that could leave United as a force to be reckoned with.  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Man City vs Arsenal: John Stones, Kyle Walker, Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli in race to be fit for Super Sunday clash live on Sky Sports  
  John Stones and Kyle Walker limped off during England duty; Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Magalhaes withdrew from national team squads; Gabriel Martinelli unavailable for Brazil; Manuel Akanji a doubt; watch Man City vs Arsenal live on Sky Sports Premier League on Sunday; kick off 4.30pm.  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 10:41, UK  
  Manchester City host Arsenal in a Premier League title-race defining match at the Etihad on Sunday, live on Sky Sports - but key players are facing a race to be fit in time for the contest.  
  With Arsenal leading Liverpool at the top of the standings on goal difference and City just a point further back, the game between City and Arsenal is a hotly-anticipated and crucial contest.  
  However, coming off the back of an international break, there is selection uncertainty on both sides…  
  Man City's defensive dilemmas  
  There was a double blow for City's England defenders, with Kyle Walker and John Stones both forced off with injury while away with the Three Lions.  
  Walker limped off during the first half of Saturday's defeat to Brazil with what was later described as a tight hamstring. The issue was initially not thought to be too serious, however on Wednesday it was announced he would be having a scan and is rated 50-50 to face Arsenal.  
  However, Stones' situation is less clear. After Tuesday's draw against Belgium, England boss Southgate suggested it was an adductor issue in his groin but the City defender didn't look comfortable when he had to make way just nine minutes into the game. He later told Sky Sports News' Rob Dorsett he was not sure if he would be fit to face Arsenal.  
  Another issue in that backline to emerge over the past few days is the fitness of Manuel Akanji, who had to withdraw from Switzerland's squad with a knock.  
  Also See:  
  Throw in goalkeeper Ederson still being out with a thigh problem and it is clear Pep Guardiola may have some reshuffling to do this weekend…  
  Any other concerns for City?  
  Further up the pitch, Guardiola will hope it is a more positive picture, with Erling Haaland able to play twice for Norway after giving his club a scare when he was seen limping in training at the start of the break. City team-mate Oscar Bobb also played in those games and scored against Czech Republic.  
  City's other standout star, Kevin De Bruyne, could also be back. He missed the FA Cup game with Newcastle before the international break with a groin injury and wasn't called up by Belgium but could return after a period of recovery.  
  Argentina's Julian Alvarez played Costa Rica in Los Angeles in the early hours of Wednesday morning so will have a delayed return to City training, while Matheus Nunes, who was on the scoresheet for Portugal against Sweden, missed their second game with suggestions he had hurt his ankle.  
  How do Arsenal look?  
  Arsenal have key men needing to prove their fitness before heading to City. Bukayo Saka withdrew from the England squad as a precaution at the end of last week with a minor muscle problem in his hamstring. It will be hoped he can get back into shape for Sunday.  
  Centre-back Gabriel Magalhaes was also withdrawn from his national team squad as a precaution, with inflammation in the Brazilian's Achilles a concern.  
  Gabriel Martinelli also missed out on playing for Brazil with the cut on his foot he suffered at Sheffield United.  
  However, there was positive news during the break, with Takehiro Tomiyasu and Thomas Partey featuring in a behind closed doors friendly so could be in contention.  
  You can now start receiving messages and alerts for the latest breaking sports news, analysis, in-depth features and videos from our dedicated WhatsApp channel!  
  After almost a month away, Brentford return to Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday to take on Manchester United. The game kicks off at 8pm and will be broadcast live on Sky Sports.  
  Thomas Frank's side lost 2-1 to Burnley last time out, while United are boosted by a dramatic 4-3 victory over Liverpool in the FA Cup.  
  Analysis, team news, match officials and more. Here's everything you need to know ahead of the Bees' latest Premier League clash.  
  Pre-match Analysis  
  Richard Cole, Playmaker Stats: United have displayed Jekyll and Hyde tendencies this season  
  A superb performance saw Brentford come incredibly close to victory at Old Trafford earlier this season before Scott McTominay's late double.  
  Thomas Frank will be hoping his team have learned a valuable lesson from that game as the Bees welcome Manchester United to Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday.  
  And while it would be nice to have another performance like the 4-0 thumping that Brentford dished out to United early last season, with this opposition you really have no idea what to expect.  
  The Red Devils' epic morale-boosting win over rivals Liverpool in the FA Cup just before the international break is an ideal case study for a team full of inconsistencies.  
  United came out of the traps flying in that game with a goal from Brentford's familiar foe McTominay.  
  But teams have shown it’s possible to get at this Manchester United midfield, who often give up ground to the opposition despite having talents like Bruno Fernandes, Casemiro and new England international Kobbie Mainoo.  
  It's not too surprising then that Red Devils have conceded an average of 16.7 shots per game this season, behind only Luton Town (17.3) and Sheffield United (17.9). For context, Brentford have conceded 14.8 shots per game this term.  
  A quickfire double put Liverpool ahead before the break in that FA Cup tie, with the United defence making some familiar mistakes. Ivan Toney, Yoane Wissa, Neal Maupay and Bryan Mbeumo will no doubt be prepared to pounce on any more.  
  United have had to manage with several injuries in defence this season including two vital players Lisandro Martínez and Luke Shaw absent in recent weeks.  
  Indeed, Saturday's game could have been a perfect chance for Sergio Reguilón to show the club he began this season with why they should have extended his loan stay. Unfortunately for the Spaniard, his sending off against Burnley means he'll have to watch from the stands.  
  Speaking of defensive absences, both Erik ten Hag and Thomas Frank will be able to share war stories about how much their teams have been hurt by long-term casualties this season.  
  Going back to that FA Cup classic, the Manchester side eventually won the game 4-3 with a last-gasp Amad Diallo winner late into extra-time. It was a special moment for the supporters, but the Red Devils have not been prolific in the league.  
  The Bees are currently out-scoring United in the Premier League by 41 goals to 39. In fact, United are just one of six teams to score fewer than 40 league goals and half of those six are teams currently in the relegation zone.  
  Brentford's luck has been out in recent defeats to Arsenal and Burnley, and they face something of a lottery when it comes to their next opponents.  
  Ten Hag's enigmatic United have displayed Jekyll and Hyde tendencies all season – and Frank's Bees will aim to locate the pressure points of a team that is simultaneously dangerous and fragile.  
  Scout Report  
  Impressive form puts United in the hunt for Champions League qualification  
  After the first seven Premier League games of this season, Manchester United had made their worst-ever start since the foundation of the competition in 1992 and also their worst since the 1989/90 campaign, three years into Sir Alex Ferguson’s near three-decade reign in charge at Old Trafford.  
  Throw in the intense questioning of new goalkeeper Andre Onana, allegations against winger Antony and the exclusion of Jadon Sancho from the squad – and subsequent loan back to Borussia Dortmund - and things were looking pretty bleak in M16.  
  A late, late 2-1 win over Brentford on 7 October – courtesy of two goals from Scott McTominay in second-half stoppage-time – started to get United out of their troubling rut, though.  
  “You have to find a moment in the season you can build on – I think we have found it now,” said Ten Hag after the dramatic victory. “This game reflects a lot of our season start; the mistake, but then the comeback, the personality, the character. This has to be a turning point. We know we have to change, reset.”  
  They won five of the next seven league games – albeit often unconvincingly and by narrow margins – to establish themselves in the top six, though it was perhaps a false dawn; by the end of 2023, they had dropped back into eighth and been knocked out of the Carabao Cup and the Champions League, finishing bottom of the group - after just one win in six - in the latter.  
  If ever United needed a reset, it was now. The winter break could not have arrived at a more apt time.  
  Fortunately for them, for the most part, everything has gone swimmingly so far since the turn of the year; in the 12 games Ten Hag’s side have played, they have won nine.  
  Five of those have come in the Premier League, where – despite their leaky defence – they have consolidated sixth and kept themselves in the hunt for a top-five spot that would likely seal Champions League qualification.  
  The other four have come in their perfect FA Cup run from the third round to the semi-finals, where Championship side Coventry stand between them and another final, potentially against sworn enemies Man City, who face Chelsea at the Etihad in three weeks’ time.  
  While it remains a worry, the aforementioned leaky defence would be more of an issue if the attack had not reached its most potent levels of the campaign in recent months. United have scored 28 across their last 12 games, seven of which have been scored by Rasmus Højlund, who is beginning to show just why the club paid a reported initial fee of £64 million to sign him from Atalanta last summer.  
  The fact lifelong fan Sir Jim Ratcliffe was confirmed as a minority shareholder in the club in February, and has since taken control of football operations, has certainly lifted the mood around the club.  
  The 71-year-old billionaire is talking the talk fans have not heard under the ownership of the Glazer family: plans to refurbish or rebuild Old Trafford, developing a star of the same ilk as Kylian Mbappé rather than shelling out huge sums for his signature and, perhaps most importantly for United fans, knocking Liverpool and Man City “off their perch”.  
  For now, there is positivity aplenty and targets to chase down in the final two months of another eventful season.  
  In the Dugout  
  Erik ten Hag  
  Before he became a manager, Erik ten Hag had a 13-year playing career as a centre-back in his native Netherlands, the majority of which was spent FC Twente, whom he signed for on three separate occasions. He lifted the KNVB Cup in 2000/01 and retired at De Grolsch Veste, aged 32 in 2002.  
  He spent the four years that followed his retirement as a coach in Twente’s youth set-up, before working as the first-team assistant to Fred Rutten and, later, to Steve McClaren during his first spell in charge of the Dutch club.  
  Rutten brought Ten Hag with him to PSV in 2009, helping the club to successive third-place finishes in the Eredivisie.  
  Four months after Rutten was sacked in 2012, Ten Hag was appointed as a manager in his own right for the first time at Eerste Divisie side Go Ahead Eagles, whom he led to promotion in his first and only season in charge.  
  He then moved on to Bayern Munich II, who he guided to the Regionalliga Bayern in 2013/14, with a squad that included Emre Can and Pierre-Emile Højbjerg.  
  In May 2015, he joined former club Utrecht and left after two and a half years, and a 51 per cent win ratio, to join Ajax three days after Christmas in 2017. It was at the Johan Cruyff Arena that he really started to make a name for himself.  
  In four and a half years, his team won the Eredivisie three times, the KNVB Cup twice and the Johan Cruyff Shield on one occasion, as well as reaching the semi-final of the Champions League in 2018/19 and the quarter-final of the Europa League in 2020/21.  
  Ten Hag signed a new two-year deal with Ajax in May 2021, but, 11 months later, it was announced he would become the new Manchester United manager. He later left the Dutch club earlier than expected to begin work at Old Trafford after Ralf Rangnick’s short spell in charge.  
  The Dutchman recently surpassed 100 games at the helm.  
  The Gameplan  
  With Tyrone Marshall, Manchester Evening News  
  Tyrone Marshall, senior football writer at the Manchester Evening News, explains how Erik ten Hag is likely to set up his side at Gtech Community Stadium on Saturday:  
  “Lisandro Martínez might be back, so there could be a change defensively, but I do not know if he will start, given he has been out for eight weeks. He was with Argentina during the international break, but I think that was more for training and to see his mates over there, really. Brentford might be too soon for him to start, but it will likely be a pretty similar team to the one they played against Liverpool.  
  “Højlund is back now, so I think he is going to start. United are still lacking a left-back, so that is not going to change and Aaron Wan-Bissaka or Diogo Dalot might play there.”  
  Last time out v Liverpool (4-2-3-1): Onana; Wan-Bissaka, Varane, Lindelof, Dalot; McTominay, Mainoo; Garnacho, Fernandes, Rashford; Højlund  
  Match Officials  
  Hooper handed fourth Brentford assignment of the season  
  Assistants: Adrian Holmes and Simon Long  
  Fourth official: Gavin Ward  
  Video assistant referee: Stuart Attwell  
  Experienced Wiltshire referee Simon Hooper, who tried to make it as a professional footballer in his youth, has taken charge of 29 Brentford games as both he and the Bees have worked their way up the divisions.  
  Hooper's first Brentford game came in October 2008 at Aldershot in League Two before seven Sky Bet League One assignments from 2009 to 2013 followed.  
  In the Sky Bet Championship, he was the man in charge for the Bees’ unforgettable 4-1 victory over Fulham at Craven Cottage in April 2015 and also refereed the 1-0 win at home to Queens Park Rangers in October that same year.  
  Hooper refereed two Brentford games last month: the 2-0 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers and a 4-2 defeat by West Ham United.  
  Last Meeting  
  Manchester United 2 Brentford 1 (Premier League, 7 October 2023)  
  Scott McTominay’s stoppage-time brace denied Brentford all three points at Old Trafford.  
  Mathias Jensen steered Thomas Frank’s side ahead from inside the penalty area on 26 minutes as the Bees took a deserved lead into half-time.  
  After the break, Brentford defended manfully and presented a threat on the break. Christian Nørgaard and Neal Maupay both saw efforts tipped over by Andre Onana but there was to be late heartbreak.  
  Introduced in the closing stages of normal time, McTominay drilled home an equaliser three minutes past the 90 before flicking the winner beyond Thomas Strakosha with the last action of the game.  
  Submit entries to our predictor game by 8pm on Saturday to be in with a chance to win monthly and seasonal predictor prizes!  
  Simply log in to your Bees account or create a free Bees account and head to the match centre where you can predict key match events for Brentford v Manchester United.  
  Enter every week to collect points and compete for the top spot in monthly and seasonal leaderboards.  
  This article is about the museum in the United Kingdom. For the museum in Germany, see German Football Museum.  
  The National Football Museum is England's national museum of football. It is based in the Urbis building in Manchester city centre, and preserves, conserves and displays important collections of football memorabilia.  
  The idea for what became the National Football Museum goes back to 1994 when Baxi Partnership, a local company, acquired Preston North End Football Club (PNE) and began the redevelopment of Deepdale Stadium. A chance conversation between Bryan Gray, Chairman of PNE, and the Football League, led to a meeting with Harry Langton, the man who over thirty years put together what is now called the FIFA Museum Collection. FIFA recognised the importance of the collection and acquired it from Harry Langton with a view to finding a permanent home. FIFA saw the proposed museum at Preston as an ideal permanent location for the FIFA Museum Collection.[citation needed]  
  Bryan Gray formed a small team of people to work on the project including Keith Cooper of FIFA, David Fleming, Director of Tyne and Wear Museums, Brian Booth, formerly Vice Chancellor of the University of Central Lancashire, and Chris Newbery, director of the Royal Marines Museum in Portsmouth. The Football Association was represented by David Davies. The National Football Museum was incorporated as a private limited company in June 1995 and became a registered charity in November 1995.[citation needed]  
  After much hard work, an application to the Heritage Lottery Fund was successful and a grant of £7.5m was awarded in November 1997. The Museum would be located in the Bill Shankly Kop of Deepdale. The total project cost was estimated at £12m. A ground-breaking ceremony took place on 26 September 1998 by Sepp Blatter of FIFA with the Rt Hon Chris Smith MP, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, in attendance. The foundation stone was laid by Bryan Gray and Ben Casey (who had persuaded Baxi to buy PNE) in April 2000. Finally the National Football Museum was officially opened on 21 June 2001 by the Duke of Kent. Bryan Gray, the founding chairman of trustees, stood down in September 2001 to be succeeded by Brian Booth.  
  Rob Pratten was the first employee of the Football Museum: he joined the team in May 1995 and for some time was the only employee. Kevin Moore was appointed Director in August 1997 and was later joined by Mark Bushell, Hugh Hornby and Lindsey Jones. The museum's first site was outside Deepdale, Preston, Lancashire. Deepdale was particularly significant as it is the oldest continuously used professional football ground in the world.[3] The museum's president is World Cup winner Sir Bobby Charlton.  
  In 2003 the museum and the University of Central Lancashire established the International Football Institute to conduct research into historical, social and cultural aspects of football.[4]  
  On a visit in 2004, Sepp Blatter, President of FIFA, commented "The National Football Museum merits my admiration as a footballer and as the President of FIFA — it is a superb realisation, a real jewel!". Sir Bobby Charlton commented that he “can’t think of a better museum anywhere in the world.” and Sir Alex Ferguson "Each time I visit the Museum I am so impressed by the great job it does in bringing the rich history of football to life".[5] The museum received the award of Large Visitor Attraction of the Year, at the 2005 Lancashire and Blackpool Tourism Awards[6]  
  In December 2008, chairman of the Football League, Brian Mawhinney caused controversy when he suggested that the Museum should be moved from Preston to Wembley Stadium in order to attract more visitors.[7] Founder Kevin Moore, stated that it had been an aim to have an exhibition at Wembley, but stated that the trustee's policy was to have its headquarters in Preston.[8][9]  
  Despite critical acclaim and attracting 100,000 visitors per year,[7][10][11] funding was repeatedly an issue.[12][13] In 2007, it had an income of £791,256 against out-goings of £1,231,195.[14] The trustees were concerned about the museum's long-term future. In 2009, they approached Manchester City Council about moving the museum. The city council offered a funding package worth £2m per year for the museum to move to Manchester. Despite an improved offer of £400,000 per year from Preston and Lancashire councils, the trustees voted to move the museum to the Urbis exhibition centre in Manchester.[15]  
  It was intended that subject to satisfactory funding, the Preston site would remain open as a secondary centre.[15] However, the museum failed to agree a funding package with Lancashire County Council and the Preston site closed to the public at the end of April 2010.[16][17] In 2023, the Preston site opened as a fan zone called 'The Gentry Bar.[18]  
  Urbis closed in February 2010 in preparation for an intended opening of the new National Football Museum in summer 2011.[19]  
  The museum reopened in Manchester on 6 July 2012. The new museum aimed to attract 350,000 visitors per year.[3] It was reported in August 2012 that the new National Football Museum attracted over 100,000 visitors in the first six weeks of opening.[20] By the end of April 2013, the museum reached its 350,000 target,[21] and was attracting 500,000 visitors by 2017.[22] From January 2019, the museum adopted a charging model, while remaining free to city of Manchester residents.[23]  
  Match Gallery – The largest floor, housing the zones:  
  The Game – Features items such as the first ever rule book from 1863 and the shirt from the first ever international football match between England and Scotland.  
  Fans – Including the original painting of L.S. Lowry's "Going to the Match".  
  Competition – Information about the various competitions and leagues, with the original version of the FA Cup and various replica trophies.  
  England on the World Stage – A section dedicated to England national men and women's teams, featuring the Jules Rimet Trophy, the match ball from the 1966 World Cup Final and Diego Maradona's "Hand of God" shirt.  
  Stadiums – Information about various stadiums and designs, with an original turnstile from the old Wembley Stadium and some original wooden seats.  
  Media – Featuring various footage and clippings from old matches, including a sheepskin coat worn by John Motson.  
  Clubs – Interactive screens with information on most league clubs in England.  
  Players – A brief look at the scope of footballers, including the only Victoria Cross won by a professional footballer and the painting "The Art of the Game" portraying Eric Cantona.  
  Our Beautiful Game – A 10-minute film in a cinema showcasing a month in English football on all levels.  
  Play Gallery – Featuring various paid-for football interactive games, as well the zones:  
  Football for All – A showcase of how football is played by people of all abilities.  
  Laws – Interactive screens explaining the original rules of football and referees roles in the game.  
  Managers – Audio clips from managers and the original Manager of the Year trophy.  
  Toys and Games – A showcase of various football-related games and toys.  
  Performance – Information about the medical side of playing football, including Willie Cunningham's knee cartilage.  
  Discovery Zone – An area for under-5s to play.  
  Score Gallery – A changing exhibition space. In summer 2016, it hosted an exhibition celebrating 50th anniversary of England's World Cup triumph. In 2018/2019 it hosted The Game: Thirty Years Through the Lens of Stuart Roy Clarke.[24]  
  Learning and Education Zone – A dedicated learning space for school and education groups.  
  Located at the Deepdale stadium in Preston, where the museum was open from June 2001 to March 2010, the independent charity holds the following collections at its research facility:  
  The Neville Evans collection forms part of the largest private collection of football memorabilia in the world. Also known as the National Football Collection, it consists of a wide range of football-related items, including the largest private collection of Tottenham Hotspur memorabilia in the world. At least 400 items are on long-term loan to the National Football Museum, with other items also being supplied to complement their in house and travelling exhibits. Started by UK businessman Neville Evans, the collection continues to grow and works to preserve and share the history of football for the next generation of fans.  
  The Homes of Football – photography by Stuart Roy Clarke[25]  
  At any time, around 2,500 items from the museum's collections are on display at its new home in Manchester city centre, with around a further 140,000 items held. Key items include[26]  
  Both of the two balls used in the first World Cup Final in 1930.[26]  
  The replica of the Jules Rimet Trophy, made in secret by the FA in 1966 after the original was stolen, and paraded by the England players at the World Cup Final in 1966.  
  The England captain's jersey and cap from the world's first official international football match, Scotland vs England,[27] in 1872.  
  The world's oldest women's football kit, from the 1890s.  
  Many exhibits are loaned to museums in the UK and artifacts have been loaned to exhibitions in Germany, Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium. The museum has worked in partnership with UEFA to create the UEFA Jubilee Exhibition, which opened in the European Parliament in Brussels, before moving to the National Football Museum. The museum also worked with UEFA to create the world's first exhibition dedicated to women's football, to coincide with the UEFA Euro 2005 Women's Championship. To mark the 2006 FIFA World Cup the museum worked with partners to develop exhibitions in Hong Kong and Germany. A special exhibition "Saved for the Nation: The Story of the FA Cup" which featured the oldest surviving FA Cup trophy, used during FA Cup Finals between 1896 and 1910, was launched in May 2006.  
  The museum's temporary exhibitions programme has also included "One for All: All for One", a photographic exhibition highlighting the work of Philip Colvin, documenting the experiences and challenges of disabled Crystal Palace supporter Samuel Burch as he travelled across the country in support of his team); and "The Greater Game: Football and The First World War", exploring the role football played at home and at the front during the war years, and explores the myths and reality of famous stories from the conflict, including a previously unseen diary detailing the events of the famous Christmas Truce of 1914, as well as lost footage from the front and of wartime football.  
  Saved for the Nation: The Story of the FA Cup - May 2006  
  One for All: All for One - March 2007 to June 2007  
  The Greater Game: Football and The First World War - December 2014  
  The Game: Thirty Years Through the Lens of Stuart Roy Clarke - March 2018 - March 2019[24]  
  Strip! How Football Got Shirty - 22 November 2019 - 7 June 2020  
  Galvin, Robert; Bushell, Mark; Charlton, Bobby (1 October 2005), Football's Greatest Heroes: The National Football Museum Hall of Fame, Robson, ISBN 9781861059048  
  Radnedge, Keir; Bushell, Mark; Lineker, Gary (1 April 2006), Treasures of the World Cup, Carlton Books Limited, ISBN 1844423212  
  ^ a b Davies, Hunter (12 March 2009), "Hands off, Wembley", New Statesman, retrieved 7 July 2012  
  Manchester City vs Manchester United live score, H2H results, standings and prediction  
  Manchester City is going head to head with Manchester United starting on 3 Mar 2024 at 15:30 UTC at Etihad Stadium stadium, Manchester city, England. The match is a part of the Premier League.  
  Manchester City played against Manchester United in 2 matches this season. Currently, Manchester City rank 3rd, while Manchester United hold 6th position. Looking to compare the best-rated player on both teams? Sofascore's rating system assigns each player a specific rating based on numerous data factors.  
  On Sofascore livescore you can find all previous Manchester City vs Manchester United results sorted by their H2H matches. Sofascore also provides the best way to follow the live score of this game with various sports features. Therefore, you can:  
  Find out who scored in a live match  
  Get real-time information on which team is dominating the match using the Attack Momentum  
  Follow detailed statistics such as ball possession, shots, corner kicks, big chances created, cards, key passes, duels and more  
  Check all head to head matches – for instance, in the last season Manchester City and Manchester United played 2 games against each other  
  Track all home and away games for each team in the Premier League  
  Check out how Sofascore community votes on which team is more likely to win this match.  
  All of these features can help you decide on Manchester City vs. Manchester United game prediction. Even though Sofascore doesn't offer direct betting, it provides the best odds and shows you which sites offer live betting. Live U-TV odds are viewable on Sofascore's Football live score section.  
  Where to watch Manchester City vs. Manchester United? Under TV Channels section you can find the list of all channels that broadcast Manchester City – Manchester United live match. You can also live stream this match through our betting partners or click on any links on Sofascore for a legal live stream.  
  Event details: NAME: Manchester City - Manchester United DATE: 3 Mar 2024 TIME: 15:30 UTC VENUE: Etihad Stadium, Manchester, England  
  Sofascore livescore is available as iPhone and iPad app, Android app on Google Play and Windows phone app. You can find us in all stores on different languages as "Sofascore". Install Sofascore app on and follow Manchester City Manchester United live on your mobile!  
  Manchester City vs Manchester United live score, H2H results, standings and prediction  
  Manchester City is going head to head with Manchester United starting on 3 Mar 2024 at 15:30 UTC at Etihad Stadium stadium, Manchester city, England. The match is a part of the Premier League.  
  Manchester City played against Manchester United in 2 matches this season. Currently, Manchester City rank 3rd, while Manchester United hold 6th position. Looking to compare the best-rated player on both teams? Sofascore's rating system assigns each player a specific rating based on numerous data factors.  
  On Sofascore livescore you can find all previous Manchester City vs Manchester United results sorted by their H2H matches. Sofascore also provides the best way to follow the live score of this game with various sports features. Therefore, you can:  
  Find out who scored in a live match  
  Get real-time information on which team is dominating the match using the Attack Momentum  
  Follow detailed statistics such as ball possession, shots, corner kicks, big chances created, cards, key passes, duels and more  
  Check all head to head matches – for instance, in the last season Manchester City and Manchester United played 2 games against each other  
  Track all home and away games for each team in the Premier League  
  Check out how Sofascore community votes on which team is more likely to win this match.  
  All of these features can help you decide on Manchester City vs. Manchester United game prediction. Even though Sofascore doesn't offer direct betting, it provides the best odds and shows you which sites offer live betting. Live U-TV odds are viewable on Sofascore's Football live score section.  
  Where to watch Manchester City vs. Manchester United? Under TV Channels section you can find the list of all channels that broadcast Manchester City – Manchester United live match. You can also live stream this match through our betting partners or click on any links on Sofascore for a legal live stream.  
  Event details: NAME: Manchester City - Manchester United DATE: 3 Mar 2024 TIME: 15:30 UTC VENUE: Etihad Stadium, Manchester, England  
  Sofascore livescore is available as iPhone and iPad app, Android app on Google Play and Windows phone app. You can find us in all stores on different languages as "Sofascore". Install Sofascore app on and follow Manchester City Manchester United live on your mobile!  
  Show more  
  Players  
  Standings  
  *Important notice – Sofascore.com in partnership with U-TV offers over 140,000 live streaming events per year. However, please note that the intellectual property rights to stream such events are usually owned at a country level and therefore, depending on your location, there may be certain events that you may be unable to view due to such restrictions. Prior to joining U-TV and funding your account in order to view Man City Man Utd, or any other particular event via the U-TV live stream, you are strongly advised to check with U-TV if, depending on your place of residence, it is possible to view the live streamed event in question.  
  About  
  Live scores service at Sofascore livescore offers sports live scores, results and tables. Follow your favourite teams right here live! Live score on Sofascore.com livescore is automatically updated and you don't need to refresh it manually. With adding games you want to follow in "My games" following your matches livescores, results and statistics will be even more simple.  
  Steph Houghton: Man City defender and ex-England captain to retire from football at the end of the season  
  Steph Houghton, who turns 36 in April, has won three Women's Super League titles across spells with Arsenal and Manchester City; the defender also captained England and has 121 caps for her country; City boss Gareth Taylor: "Steph is - without question - an icon of the game."  
  Wednesday 27 March 2024 20:31, UK  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Manchester City captain and ex-England skipper Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season and insists now is the right time to hang up her boots  
  Manchester City Women defender and former England captain Steph Houghton is retiring from football at the end of the season.  
  Houghton, who turns 36 in April, has won three Women's Super League titles across her spells with Arsenal and City.  
  The defender also has 121 caps for her country, leading the Lionesses to third place at the 2015 World Cup.  
  Twitter This content is provided by Twitter, which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable Twitter cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to Twitter cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow Twitter cookies for this session only.  
  "There is no easy way to say it, but I am retiring from football at the end of the current WSL season," Houghton said in a statement.  
  "Taking the decision to retire is such a difficult thing to do. Whilst age comes to every player, it makes it no easier having to say the words out loud. Football has been my life; my passion and I have loved the career I have had."  
  Injury has blighted the latter stages of her career and led to Houghton missing out on Sarina Wiegman's Lionesses squad that won the Euros in 2022.  
  Houghton has the chance to sign off in style, though, by helping her side to another league title this season - with City level on points with Chelsea at the top of the WSL table.  
  Also See:  
  City head coach Gareth Taylor said: "Steph is - without question - an icon of the game. Although her professional career on the pitch is now coming to an end, her legacy will be felt for so many years to come. She's paved the way for so many to thrive in the future.  
  "Steph has lived and breathed football for such a long time, and she leaves it in the strongest place it has ever been - a true testament to her leadership, hard work, talent, and dedication.  
  "I feel incredibly privileged to have been able to work with her since 2020 and know her name will be written into the history books as a true footballing great.  
  "Steph will excel in whatever she puts her mind to, and, on behalf of everyone here at Manchester City, I'd like to express our immense gratitude and wish Steph all the very best for the future."  
  Izzy Christiansen, a team-mate of Houghton's with City and England, told Sky Sports News: "Steph is an absolutely superb professional but I completely understand her reasoning. It's mentally and physically exhausting, giving so much to the game at a time when not many people believed in it.  
  "Steph was one of those that paved the way and believed when not many did. She set the highest of standards with her professionalism as a captain.  
  "Playing with her for Man City and England, she was an incredible leader and she will continue to be that for the rest of the season."  
  Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player  
  Izzy Christiansen shares her reaction to the news that former team-mate Houghton is set to retire from football and says she is an incredible professional who will be a loss to women's football  
  The Sky Sports pundit added: "I genuinely don't think England would have won the Euros in 2022 had Steph not been a captain before for club and for country.  
  "Her impact in the game, it extends for the last 10 or 15 years at least, especially within the change of professionalism in women's football.  
  "Steph is somebody I look at and will always look back on as someone that paved the way for a lot of people and I hope over the next few months she gets her recognition in the game."  
  Houghton's retirement statement in full  
  "There is no easy way to say it, but I am retiring from football at the end of the current WSL season.  
  "Taking the decision to retire, is such a difficult thing to do. Whilst age comes to every player, it makes it no easier having to say the words out loud. Football has been my life; my passion and I have loved the career I have had.  
  "I would like to thank every team-mate I have ever played with; I have continued to learn every day and appreciate the support each has given me and the friendships I have made along the way. To my managers, coaches and all the staff that I have worked with and under, I appreciate the time, effort and work you have dedicated to improving my game and the standards of women's football.  
  "It has been an honour and a privilege to represent Sunderland, Leeds Utd, Arsenal and to have been on the incredible journey that I have been on, with Manchester City over the past 10 years.  
  "I will always be humbled to have made so many domestic appearances, to have captained my country and to have represented England and Team GB in so many international tournaments. I will always be very proud of everything that I have achieved in the game.  
  "To all the fans, I have never taken your support for granted. The special feeling of hearing 'Super Steph' will forever live with me.  
  "Whilst I have been lucky to have had special moments on the pitch, it gives me a lot of satisfaction what the game has achieved off the pitch during my career.  
  "The game has moved so quickly from amateur to professional over the last twenty years. I thank the trailblazers that came before me, for your perseverance and commitment to effecting change for my generation.  
  "I hope that I leave the game in a better place than when I started, and that I have contributed in some small way to giving the girls of tomorrow a better future in football.  
  "My biggest thanks, appreciation and love belongs to my husband and inspiration, Stephen, my mam, my dad, my brother Stuart, the rest of my family, Matthew Buck, and all my closest friends for your love, guidance, understanding and support - it has been my constant.  
  "I am excited for whatever comes next but, in the meantime, I remain focused on giving everything I have left for Manchester City, over the next two months."  
  'Man City will have extra title motivation'  
  Sky Sports News' Anton Toloui:  
  "I don't think the news itself is any surprise. As she's mentioned in her interview with City, the last couple of years of her career haven't quite gone to plan, but the fact she's announced it now is a bit of a surprise.  
  "Manchester City are in a heck of a title race right now, but I don't think she wants to become a distraction as the end of the season gets closer. City are trying to win the WSL title and they will very much want to do it for the club captain Houghton, because she's that popular, that iconic a figure. Manchester City now have extra motivation.  
  "You can't easily sum up the impact on the professional game that Houghton has had. She is the epitome of a professional. Since she became captain, that England team has learned how to go deep in tournaments. Don't forget how good a player she's been, too; the complete defender: positioning, strength, scoring from set-pieces.  
  "It has been really difficult and frustrating in the last couple of years of her career. Sarina Wiegman, in her first week in charge, said that Houghton would be her captain at first. The day before the first Lionesses game under Wiegman, Houghton did her Achilles. She never played for England again. She worked so hard to get back for the Euros but wasn't selected. She lost her place at Manchester City too; they signed Alanna Kennedy, Alex Greenwood came in and did so well at centre-half.  
  "But there will not be one person in the league more determined to go on and win the next nine games to end City's barren run stretching back to 2016."  
  The story of the first football team in Manchester: Hulme Athenaeum  
  The true tale of the first football team in Manchester remained hidden until six years ago.  
  The announcement that the Premier League would return on June 17 was greeted, by and large, with relish across the country.  
  Football’s cancellation left a void in our lives that we’ve been trying to fill ever since with podcasts, TV repeats, and, more recently, the Bundesliga.  
  But whilst the return of elite sport is a welcome one, clubs that sit further down the pyramid are still in panic.  
  Lower league football is finished for the foreseeable future, with the 2020/21 season still shrouded in uncertainty. It remains a very real and worrying possibility that COVID-19 may ultimately claim some clubs forever.  
  In the meantime, fans are finding solace in looking back through the footballing archives, distracting themselves with great chapters of history and origin stories.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  In the case of every club, there’s so much to explore. Football found its feet in separate parts of the country in so many different ways – but the true tale of how the sport took off in Manchester remained hidden until six years ago.  
  Turton FC was, for many years, believed to be the oldest club in the Lancashire region – founded way back in 1871.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  But when researchers Gary James and Dave Day elected to delve through the annals of local history in 2014, they discovered the region’s first association football team had been forgotten.  
  Eight years prior to Turton, there was Hulme Athenaeum.  
  The memories of Manchester’s original football club have been published in James/Day’s paper, The Emergence of an Association Football Culture in Manchester 1840–1884 – a document that ultimately rewrote football history (and has since been expanded upon in James’ superb book: The emergence of footballing cultures, Manchester 1840-1919).  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  Research shows that Hulme was one of the most impoverished local areas during the 19th century, with the neighbourhood described as being ‘sunk in filth.’  
  Sir William Thackeray Marriott – an ordained deacon and curate of St George’s Church and champion of working-class rights – helped to introduce sports to the poverty-stricken settlement in the 1850s, with the aim of giving residents an outlet.  
  This led to the opening of a clubhouse in 1860 – which was given the name ‘Hulme Athenaeum.’  
  In 1863, members of the club began playing an ‘elementary association game’, before eventually introducing dribbling and passing.  
  Football was far from prevalent in the North-West at the time and was a new activity for some of the players – several of whom seemingly joined the club purely to take advantage of the clubhouse facilities.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  According to James & Day: “Gas rental collector James Warrington, an early captain of the football club during the 1860s, later admitted he joined ‘for the sake of the gymnasium’.”  
  Membership was charged at one shilling, and with fifty members in the ranks Hulme Athenaeum ended up developing into an organised, ambitious football club – producing consistently updated records.  
  Evidence shows they played fixtures every Saturday over the course of five consecutive seasons, competing against the likes of Sale and, a little further afield, Garrick – a team in Sheffield.  
  With football still in its infancy, rules weren’t exactly concrete, meaning clubs would have to adapt to different regulations when they visited another area; similar to the way you might begrudgingly play along to friends’ Monopoly laws when you’re in their home over the holidays.  
  One match report from Hulme and Garrick, for example, states that “Sheffield rules” were used.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  Gary James  
  After 1873, the name Hulme Athenaeum vanished into the footballing wilderness, but James believes the club’s brief existence was crucial to the development of the game in the region.  
  He states: “Despite the failure to create a viable fixture list each season, the club did encourage individuals to adopt the game at a time when formal association football, if later chroniclers of the game are to be believed, did not exist in Lancashire.  
  “Moreover, the club deliberately engaged with lower middle class and working men within a densely populated area of the city.”  
  Some of the men that represented Hulme continued to play on after the team folded – signing for the second club founded in the city: Manchester Association.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  As word travelled and the game of football gathered momentum, people came to watch as well as play; leading to the birth of more local clubs in the 1880s such as West Gorton St Mark’s – who eventually turned into Manchester City (via Ardwick AFC) – and Newton Heath Lancashire & Yorkshire Railway: Who would become Manchester United.  
  Hulme Athenaeum wasn’t just the club that laid the groundwork for local football. It was also an organisation that proved the first people playing the game in Manchester were ordinary, working blokes.  
  “While football now might be thought of as a predominantly working class sport, typically football clubs in the 1860s were founded by public schools who also set the rules,” says James.  
  “The re-discovery of Hulme Athenaeum challenges that perception.”  
  Feature  
  Speaking with Maggie Rogers before her spellbinding stripped-back set at Gorilla Danny Jones  
  Every now and again we’re fortunate enough to get the opportunity not only to see a big name but to experience them in a smaller, more intimate setting for those special one-offs that people go on to talk about for years to come — that’s how we got to see Maggie Rogers at Gorilla on Monday.  
  Better still, we were incredibly lucky to be offered time to speak with the American singer-songwriter just a couple of hours prior to her all-acoustic set at Gorilla and just before she and her band set off to tour her new album, Don’t Forget Me, which drops next month.  
  Manchester being the first of these up close and personal pre-album launch shows here in the UK, of which she listed just four, it’s always an honour to be picked for the start or the end of an album cycle but it was immediately clear she had a lot of love for our city.  
  Arriving in 0161 on Sunday just in time for the Paddy’s Day chaos and to watch the FA Cup final between Man United and Liverpool in a local pub, our conversation started with simply: “That game!”  
  The interview  
  After meeting and greeting the line of people already queuing up for the 500-cap Gorilla show, we walked backstage for what ended up being a laid-back chat about live music, relaxing into herself as an artist and an album process that was recorded in a whirlwind five days.  
  Touching on the upcoming third album and that beautiful title track, Maggie said, “It feels like coming home. In a lot of ways, it’s like a return to a lot of the style of songwriting and production and arrangement that really got me into music in this place when I was like 16/17.  
  “It just feels really relaxed and my friends keep saying that it sounds like the version of me that they know. I think, after doing this for quite a while, I’m finally relaxing into it.  
  “I think it’s always been authentic but I think music sort of takes some of the most sensitive and intense people and puts them in really high-intensity situations… It’s not even that I wasn’t being authentic before, I think it’s just that my guard was a little bit up yeah. I was a little scared — I still am, you know, but I think that’s normal.”  
  How her sound is evolving  
  Describing how it felt her last LP Surrender had the punchiest and most contemporary rock approach of her music to date, we then moved on to where her style is at currently and the difference between the studio listening experience and live performance.  
  “I mean, my undergrad was in production engineering but that record was really designed to be played live, especially in a time like the pandemic, where all I was thinking about was coming back to touring and really missing it.  
  “I got really into British rock and, at least during the Surrender era, I was like fully like in Oasis mode, but you guys are responsible for some of the best music and pop culture.”  
  Chuffed that she dropped in the Burnage boys so early in the conversation, she went on to say that although she was “discovered in a moment of experimentation” — that old Pharrell meme (yes, that is her if you’ve never put two and two together), her “songwriting has always been the same at the centre.”  
  “What I love about making albums is the world-building part of it, and I’ve just gotten to build different worlds. I always think about where the albums are designed to be listened to and Heard It in a Past Life was really designed for headphones, Surrender was really designed for stage and this is really designed for a car — like a Sunday afternoon drive”.  
  As she puts it, the debut was lots of synths, the sophomore was “drums and distortion” and the star of Don’t Forget Me is the acoustic guitar. “There’s definitely different forms of energy”, she said, adding: “but this is more on the stripped side and the whole record was kind of designed as a live album. Almost everything was a first take and this record was made in five days”. Some achievement in its own right.  
  Having the most fun on stage  
  After touching on that internet moment from back in 2016, we then talked about how seeing her for the first time at Victoria Warehouse back in November 2022 (which she described as “so sick” and one of her favourite venues here in Manchester) was the real ‘wow’ moment for us and realising just important it is to see her live. Maggie puts a lot of it down to the band.  
  “I think that on stage what I love is that it’s different every night. I’ve worked really hard to be excellent at something that I really love and I get to play with some of the best musicians around and my band is just so f***ing talented.”  
  “It’s sort of like I hope the audience is having a good time too but also if they’re not I’m just having a really good time anyway.” She definitely was too; jumping ahead a little bit, one of our favourite moments from the gig was when she stopped between songs to laugh and say, “I just love playing music”.  
  She said similar about the creative process this time around too. Although there’s a lengthy newsletter post describing how the album came to be on her Instagram, she summed up it by saying, “Creativity, often comes from some of the most essential and sometimes childish or playful senses.  
  “Like, it’s called playing music and I think keeping that like sense of playfulness alive is so inherent to keeping my creativity alive, and in the studio making this record I was just having so much fun and was just feeling really playful, so we sort of made a record by not trying to make a record.”  
  Again, you could see that “contagious joy” she talked about written on her face and everyone else’s.  
  The show  
  Moving on to the show itself, Maggie said she was most looking forward to playing the likes of ‘Drunk’ which they’ve been doing live for a while now, as well as a track she called “devastating” with just the keys and a guitar entitled, ‘The Kill’ — and she wasn’t lying.  
  She set up the song by promising “It’s such a jam” with a full band but the stripped-back version fittingly killed us off in the crowd and the same could be said for a lot of the versions we heard on the night. From ‘Begging for Rain’ to an almost ethereal take on ‘Alaska’, you really get to appreciate just how incredible her voice is in this kind of scenario.  
  Bigging up British and Manchester crowds in particular because we “know culture and [we] care”, insisting, “It’s crazy how important those two things are”, her audience certainly lived up to the billing. She said there’s no “half-assing” it with us and she was right. We were emotional and so was she.  
  The set naturally closed with ‘Don’t Forget Me and a few teary faces (we didn’t dare film that moment as we wanted to be present) but nothing summed up the night better than when the Manc Maggie fans pretty much turned Gorilla into a congregation for ‘That’s Where I Am’, perfectly harmonising and clapping like a gospel choir.  
  We’re already looking back on the show and thinking of it as going down as one of those ‘I was there’ moments and we think we speak for everyone when they say they won’t forget the time they saw Maggie Rogers at Gorilla with nothing more than a guitar and her piano player — also incredible, by the way.  
  Don’t Forget Me releases on Friday, 12 April and we already can’t wait to hear not only how the rest of it sounds but how the tracks we heard sound fully-fledged.  
  Featured Images — The Manc Group/Press Image (supplied)  
  Feature  
  A Manc’s guide to: Prestwich, the Bury neighbourhood with brilliant bars, restaurants, green space and more Daisy Jackson  
  Prestwich has become a magnet for young professionals in recent years, a slightly more affordable cousin of Greater Manchester suburbs like Chorlton and Didsbury.  
  But it’s not just the house prices that draw people to this neighbourhood in Bury.  
  It’s the green space, the blossoming food and drink scene, the easy-peasy transport links, and the community.  
  This is a suburb where you can walk for miles through fields and woods without crossing a road – but can be sipping a negroni just minutes later.  
  Despite its proximity to the M60, it’s not uncommon to spot deer strutting around just beyond the housing estates of the main village.  
  There’s plenty more going on that will sell the appeal of this booming little suburb, too. Here’s our guide to Prestwich.  
  Food and drink  
  In the world of chippies, that’s a very big deal indeed.  
  With fish and spuds sourced fresh and fried in beef dripping, this place alone is almost enough to sell people on the pull of Prestwich.  
  They’re expanding into the unit next door too, where there’ll be more space to dining in as well as a bar where you can grab a pint while you wait.  
  But there’s plenty more to the neighbourhood’s food and drink scene.  
  Some of the frontrunners here include Cuckoo (a cosy neighbourhood bar hosting cinema nights and serving top-notch pizzas), All The Shapes (seasonal brunches and out-of-this-world Mexican food, plus loads of craft beers and cocktails), and the Crooked Man (a charming beer bar that feels like you’ve wandered into someone’s living room).  
  Hospitality businesses from elsewhere in the region keep heading here too, like Croma (which has now shut its city centre site but says Prestwich is thriving), Wine & Wallop, and Dokes, a pizza joint from the same team behind Elnecot in Ancoats. Rudy’s is also eyeing up a site in Prestwich for the first time.  
  More recent additions include Nonna’s, an Italian deli, The Pearl, a delightful neighbourhood bistro with a wine window.  
  There’s a phenomenal Middle Eastern restaurant scene in Prestwich, with Lebanese restaurant Remal happily rubbing shoulders with the always-busy Anatolian Grill and Istanbul Grill.  
  A little further away from the main drag of Bury New Road is The Goods In, from the same team behind the aforementioned All The Shapes.  
  They’ve taken an old MOT garage and turned it into a sunny yellow hangout spot, serving loaded flatbreads, great beer and top-quality coffees right on the edge of Heaton Park.  
  And further towards the city centre is Osma, a Scandinavian-style restaurant fronted by Michelin-trained Danielle Heron which calmly marched its way straight into the Michelin Guide.  
  When you merge Prestwich with its neighbouring suburbs, you come up with the second-largest Jewish community in the UK – and that means this is the best place in Greater Manchester to come for bagels and deli goods.  
  Cooper’s Let’s Fress is one of the big players, drawing queues out the door every Sunday with its £6 bagel special (five bagels, with sides of smoked salmon, cream cheese, tuna mayonnaise and egg salad).  
  There are less traditional bagels too, with Eat New York’s Triple B now based in Prestwich serving cheeseburger bagels and buffalo chicken burgers.  
  Put the stretchy pants on before you come for a day out in Prestwich, basically.  
  Shopping  
  Prestwich’s high street isn’t one that’s necessarily been designed for visitors.  
  There’s not much in the way of achingly-cool boutiques or artisan bakeries.  
  But what it is is actually much better – it’s a rare example of a high street full of essential, independently-operated retailers.  
  There’s a bike shop, an optician’s, a hardware store, a pet shop, beauty salons, newsagents and gift shops with barely a big chain in sight (just don’t look over there at the Costa and Superdrug on the precinct).  
  Some of the most exciting shops you’ll find here specialise in food and drink, like Keg Cask and Bottle, where you can pick up a few cans of craft beer and sit in the shop to drink them – they recently expanded into the unit next door too, for extra drinking room.  
  Grape to Grain has a presence here too on the corner of Bury New Road and Church Lane, where, again, you can crack open your purchase and drink it on a seat by the windows.  
  Back down the road towards the city centre you’ll find Lupo, a brilliant Italian business that’s moved onto an industrial estate to sell its homemade doughnuts and pasta dishes as well as imported Italian produce.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  It’s a real local highlight, sitting outside Lupo in the car park with an Aperol spritz and a gigantic bowl of freshly-made pasta.  
  There are beautiful, antique-inspired homewares to be found in Rose & Lee, from stunning furniture to bunches of dried flowers.  
  And for those who call Prestwich home, there’s the holy trinity of supermarkets all in a row – an M&S Simply Food (for pay day), a big 24-hour Tesco, and an Aldi. Genuinely, what a treat.  
  Nightlife and hotels  
  As a densely residential suburb of Greater Manchester, Prestwich’s nightlife scene tends to wrap up fairly promptly around 11pm.  
  Very sensible.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  The star of Prestwich after dark is Take Me To Church, a clubnight laced with disco, funk and soul.  
  They say: ‘We’re not kids, but we still wanted to go somewhere that played the kind of music that we loved to dance to without having to wait ’till daft-o-clock in town for a cab home. We wanted somewhere local, but there was nothing – so we did it ourselves.”  
  There’s also Cape to Cuba, where Caribbean-inspired burgers and poutine are matched with a buzzing atmosphere, you’ll find a party that runs until 1am.  
  If you can make it through Cape to Cuba’s door without being handed a shot of rum, you’re a rare breed.  
  Then there’s events company So Prestwich, which whips up daytime events but also pulls out a banger of an Indie night.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  The Makers Market has also recently started holding artisan markets at Prestwich precinct, where locals can pick up freshly-made cakes and handmade gifts.  
  An, of course, the biggest party of the year takes place on Prestwich’s doorstep – Parklife festival.  
  80,000 people per day flock here every summer to party in Heaton Park, with this year’s line-up including Doja Cat, Disclosure, J Hus and Becky Hill.  
  In terms of hotels… erm… there’s a Premier Inn? Probably just stay in the city centre, to be honest.  
  Culture  
  The biggest selling point of Prestwich has to be its green space – and it’s not just Heaton Park.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  The neighbourhood is bookmarked on the other end by Philips Park, Drinkwater Park, Prestwich Clough and Waterdale Meadow, all blending into one another.  
  This is the part of town where you can walk (or run) for miles without having to stop for pesky traffic.  
  There are mountain bike trails, panoramic views of the city skyline, fishing lakes, historic buildings and play areas.  
  You can spot the park’s resident heron hanging out, weirdly, right next to the M60, and say hello to the cows and horses who graze in the fields.  
  Prestwich’s culture really does revolve around the great outdoors – there are tennis courts, bowling greens and basketball courts at St Mary’s Park too.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  This part of town has always hosted one of the suburb’s biggest cultural events every summer, when Festwich pulls up into town – this year it’s getting bigger than ever and moving to Heaton Park.  
  It’s the largest tribute act festival in the UK and brings fairground rides, live music, and surprisingly affordable festival beers to the fields every year.  
  Watch out for the Prestwich Arts Festival (a community art trail) and the phenomenal work left behind – like the hyper-realistic murals of Mark E. Smith and Victoria Wood.  
  Property  
  Much like the rest of the country, Prestwich’s property prices are on the up – but they still come in significantly cheaper than suburbs south of the city centre.  
  Properties in Prestwich had an overall average price of £266,646 over the last year.  
  ADVERTISEMENT  
  The majority of sales in Prestwich during the last year were semi-detached properties, selling for an average price of £283,494. Terraced properties sold for an average of £234,123, with flats fetching £143,959.  
  There’s a lovely mix of Victorian-era terraces, modern apartments and huge sprawling townhouses (Guest Road is goals).  
  Transport  
  Prestwich is an absolute doddle to get to by tram, with both Heaton Park and Prestwich tram stops only a 15 minute ride from Manchester Victoria.  
  There are regular buses too, including the express buses that will take you onwards to Ramsbottom and into Lancashire.  
  For those who drive, the suburb is straight off the M60 and M62 motorways. A breeze.  
  1865  
  St. Mark’s Church, Clowes Street, West Gorton consecrated by the Bishop of Manchester on 30th November. A few days later the Rev. Arthur Connell was inducted.  
  1875  
  St. Mark’s Cricket Club known to have played several games. Some evidence exists to suggest the cricket side was created in 1868, possibly earlier. The cricket team later added a football section.  
  1880  
  The cricketers formed a football team, with the support and guidance of William Beastow. St. Mark’s (West Gorton) Football Club played on waste ground near the church, and their first opponents were the Baptist Church from Macclesfield (2-1 defeat with 12 players each!).  
  1887  
  Seven seasons of name and ground changes culminated in the club renaming itself Ardwick AFC and finding a more permanent base between Hyde Road and Bennett Street in Ardwick. The club turned professional and paid existing player Jack Hodgetts 5 shillings per week.  
  1889  
  Ardwick played Newton Heath at Belle Vue in a floodlit charity match to raise money for the Hyde Colliery disaster fund.  
  1890  
  On 4th October Ardwick defeat Liverpool Stanley 12-0 at Hyde Road in the club’s first F.A. Cup match.  
  1891  
  Ardwick defeated Newton Heath 1-0, with a 7th minute goal from influential captain Davie Weir, in the Manchester Cup final. They also applied to join the Football League, as did Newton Heath. Both Manchester sides were rejected in favour of Stoke and Darwen. Instead Ardwick joined the Football Alliance.  
  1892  
  Ardwick, wearing their customary ‘Cambridge Blue’ (the colour may have been adopted by the club in the 1880s, though there’s no actual proof), finished 7th out of 12 clubs in the Alliance and won the Manchester Cup for the second year running by defeating League side Bolton 4-1. The Football League was extended with the Alliance, in effect, becoming the Second Division.  
  1893  
  The Blues beat Bootle 7-0 at Hyde Road to put Ardwick at the top of the very first 2nd Division table. They ended the season 5th out of 12, and were already established as Manchester’s biggest crowd pullers.  
  1894  
  Financial problems beset Ardwick and after a dismal 2nd League season (they finished 13th out of 15 in Division Two) the club collapsed. In April Manchester City F.C. was formed by the bulk of the Ardwick committee. They wanted to create a club for all Mancunians to support and their ambition helped the club gain election to the League. The legendary Billy Meredith was signed and made his debut against Newcastle on 27th October.  
  1895  
  9th in Division Two. City Didn’t bother to enter the F.A. Cup in 1894/5 and withdrew from their October 1895 qualifying round game with Oswaldtwistle.  
  1896  
  2nd in Division Two, but failed to gain promotion via the Test Matches (similar to play-offs).  
  1897  
  6th in Division Two. Defeated 6-0 by Preston in First Round of F.A. Cup in January.  
  1898  
  Narrowly missed out on the final year of the Test Matches, finishing 3rd. Reached the 2nd round of the Cup but were defeated 1-0 at Bolton.  
  1899  
  Won the 2nd Division title on 56 points and, alongside 2nd placed Glossop North End, became the first side to gain automatic promotion. Lost 3-2 to Small Heath in the 1st round of the Cup.  
  First Division One game ended in a 4-3 defeat at Blackburn, while the 1st Hyde Road Division One match ended 4-0 to the Blues.  
  1900  
  The first game of the new century was a friendly with Division Two’s Newton Heath (Manchester United’s original name). City won the match 2-1 before a Hyde Road crowd of 7,000.  
  The first League game of the century was a no score draw at Derby County. The Blues finished their first season in Division One 7th out of 18. They lost 3-0 to Aston Villa in a 1st round Cup replay. In September 1900 future Prime Minister AJ Balfour attended Hyde Road.  
  1901  
  11th in Division One. Once again couldn’t pass the 1st round of the Cup (West Brom won 1-0!)  
  1902  
  Relegated to Division Two, but managed to reach the 2nd round of the Cup (losing to Forest 2-0!). Former Celtic player Tom Maley became the club’s 4th secretary-manager during the close season.  
  Welsh international and key City defender Di Jones gashed his knee in the annual public practice match in August, within a week he was dead. The wound had turned septic.  
  1903  
  Champions of Division 2 for the 2nd time. Top score was Billy Gillespie with 30 goals.  
  1904  
  Despite previous cup form, City won the F.A. Cup beating Bolton 1-0 via a Billy Meredith first half goal at Crystal Palace. Narrowly missed out on the League & Cup double, finishing 2nd to Sheffield Wednesday.  
  1905  
  Hyde Road staged the 1905 F.A. Cup semi-final between Newcastle and Sheffield Wednesday. The Blues finished 3rd (2 points behind champions Newcastle). Aston Villa’s Alec Leake accused Billy Meredith of attempting to bribe him to throw the Villa-City match on 29/4/05. Leake also threw dirt at City’s Sandy Turnbull who retaliated by sticking 2 fingers up to the Villa man. A full-scale enquiry was ordered.  
  1906  
  City ended 1905-6 in 5th place and then were mortified when the findings of the investigations following the 1905 Villa match resulted in the F.A. identifying financial irregularities at the club. 17 players, including virtually all the first team squad, were banned and fined; Directors Allison and Davies were suspended for 7 months; and manager Tom Maley and chairman W. Forrest were banned from English football sine die.  
  When new manager Harry Newbould joined City in July he had only 11 players available. The club was virtually dead. Despite the problems, City won the first Division One Manchester derby 3-0 at Hyde Rd on 1/12/06. New ‘keeper Walter Smith was the star man that day.  
  1907  
  Manchester United made heroes of Billy Meredith, Herbert Burgess, Sandy Turnbull, and Jimmy Bannister - the key City players forced out of Hyde Road. They were transferred to the Reds in December 1906. Most Blues were happy as it was seen as a good way to ensure the players remained in Manchester. It also helped City’s then poor relations establish themselves as a force. Within 4 years Meredith & Co. had helped the Reds win their first honours – 2 Championships & the F.A. Cup.  
  1908  
  Newbould’s Blues managed to finish 3rd with ‘keeper Walter Smith becoming the first City man to be an ever-present in all 44 League and Cup matches.  
  1909  
  Inconsistency dogged Newbould’s side, culminating in relegation at the end of 1908-9 on goal average. Bradford City were the team that survived by defeating Manchester United 1-0.  
  1910  
  City won the Second Division title – their 3rd since 1899 – with a relatively consistent season. 23 victories, 8 draws, and only 7 defeats. Star man was George Dorsett who was top scorer with 13 goals. His brother Joe joined City in August 1910.  
  Major ground improvements at Hyde Road resulted in 3 multi-span roofs being erected. This allowed the Blues to boast they provided cover for over 35,000, and had all 4 sides of the ground covered. The directors were quick to point out that Old Trafford, opened in February 1910, only provided cover for about a quarter of City’s figure.  
  1911  
  City played a leading role in the establishment of the Central League. Director W.A. Wilkinson chaired many of the initial meetings.  
  Goalkeeper Jim Goodchild signed in December. He stayed with City until August 1927 and was a firm favourite with the fans.  
  1912  
  The football world was stunned when United manager Ernest Mangnall – the man responsible for bringing the Reds their first successes and for the move to Old Trafford - announced he was leaving the Reds for the Blues. His final game in charge was the Old Trafford derby, played after he announced he was leaving. City won 1-0 and the Umpire newspaper summed it up nicely: “United speeded their manager rejoicing with 2 points to his new club.”  
  1913  
  The cup-tie with Sunderland in February at Hyde Road was abandoned after crowd control difficulties. Many people were crushed. The official crowd was 41,709 but an estimate of 50,000 seems more believable, particularly as many ticket holders were locked out. Manager Ernest Mangnall was held responsible for the organisation of the day, with the Daily Dispatch claiming that he should always ‘ensure mounted police are available to control the huge crowds that watch the City club’.  
  1914  
  City encouraged their players to join the armed forces and fight in the Great War. In addition, players and officials agreed to give 5% of their wages to the Price of Wales’ Fund.  
  1915  
  The Blues ended the 1914-15 season 5th, only 3 points behind champions Everton (interestingly Everton were also champions in the last season before WWII). For 1915 until 1919 regional football was organised.  
  1916  
  City win the Lancashire Section of the wartime Football League – which comprised of all the Lancastrian teams of the period plus Stoke - and the Subsidiary Tournament (southern section) which followed. The southern section comprised of City, United, Oldham, Everton, Liverpool, and Stockport, with the other Lancastrian teams featuring in another section.  
  Billy Meredith returned to City, making his second debut in the 11/3/16 1-1 draw with Liverpool. A week later he scored his first Blue goal since 1905 as City drew 1-1 at Everton.  
  1917  
  In May Sandy Turnbull, cup winner in 1904, was killed while serving with the Manchester regiment in the trenches at Arras.  
  Hyde Road was used for stabling at times during the war.  
  1918  
  The end of the war came too late for the Football League to resume, but a final season of regional football was performed. After 4 seasons of regional wartime football Eli Fletcher had made most wartime appearances for the Blues (133), closely followed by Jim Goodchild (130). United’s Billy Meredith had appeared 107 times for City. Top scorer – by a margin of 50 goals – was Horace Barnes with 73 goals from 73 games.  
  1919  
  The first Football League match following the war ended 3-3 with Sheffield United at Hyde Road on 30/8/19.  
  1920  
  All round amateur sportsman Max Woosnam made his debut on New Year’s day. Three years later he captained City for the first match at Maine Road.  
  King George V visited Hyde Road for City’s 2-1 defeat of Liverpool. It was the first time a reigning monarch had attended a provincial football ground. He was said to be delighted with the result – well, he did have blue blood!  
  1921  
  City finished 2nd to Burnley in Division One.  
  1922  
  Incredible plans to build a stadium capable of holding 120,000 at a site near Moss Side were announced. The 16¼ acre site, adjacent to a relatively minor street called Maine Road, cost £5,500. The builders Robert McAlpine worked with architect Charles Swain to design and build a stadium in 2 phases. The first phase opened in 1923.  
  Manager Ernest Mangnall was said to be chiefly responsible for the plan. It should be noted he was also responsible for United’s decision to build Old Trafford about 14 years earlier.  
  1923  
  Maine Road with an estimated capacity of 90,000 was opened by councillor Cundiff, the Lord Mayor of Manchester. Horace Barnes scored the first goal at the stadium after approximately 68 minutes. Sheffield United were defeated 2-1 before a crowd of 56,993  
  1924  
  49 year old Billy Meredith returned to City, making his 3rd Blue debut in the F.A. Cup 3rd round at Brighton. The Blues won 5-1 with Meredith claiming one of the goals – one fumbled in by the goalkeeper - as his own.  
  The next round proved the worth of Maine Road with a crowd of 76,166 paying £4,909 to see Meredith & Co. take on Cardiff. The game ended goal-less, but City won the replay, giving Meredith his first City semi-final appearance since 1904. Sadly, a 2-0 defeat by Newcastle ended the possibility of Meredith making a fairytale appearance at the 2 year old Wembley Stadium.  
  In May, for no obvious reason the City directors refused to renew Ernest Mangnall’s contract.  
  1925  
  Former Oldham Athletic manager David Ashworth led the Blues to 10th place in 1924/5. Unusually for the period Ashworth had insisted on a ‘get-out’ clause in his contract with Oldham which allowed him to leave if ‘a better post’ came along. Is that where Howard Kendall got the idea from?  
  1926  
  In January, City defeat United 6-1 at Old Trafford to record the highest derby victory of all time. In March they beat them again, this time it was 3-0 at Bramall Lane in the F.A. Cup semi-final. Unfortunately Bolton beat the Blues 1-0 in the final at Wembley, and then a week later City were relegated. Ashworth had resigned in November 1925, and Chairman Albert Alexander took control of team affairs until the last few days of the season. 1925/6 was a typical City season!  
  1927  
  City missed promotion by the narrowest goal average margin of all time – City’s average was 1.7705; promoted Portsmouth’s was 1.7755. Another goal would have done.  
  1928  
  An average crowd of approximately 37,300 watched the Blues win the Second Division championship. This was the largest average in the entire Football League. Not bad for a Second Division side.  
  1929  
  Ernie Toseland made his debut in the 2-1 defeat of Bury on 20/4/29. He went on to make 409 appearances.  
  1930  
  Tommy Johnson, star player for a decade, was sold to Everton for £6,000 much to the annoyance of City’s large support. During his career he had broken all City’s goalscoring records. Today he remains 2nd highest overall goalscorer with 166 goals from 354 appearances, and his 38 goals in 1928-9 remain the highest in a season.  
  1931  
  Billy Dale made his debut on Boxing Day 1931 after joining City from 2nd Division Manchester United.  
  1932  
  The Blues lose 1-0 to a Cliff Bastin goal for Arsenal in the F.A. Cup semi-final at Villa Park.  
  1933  
  A Dixie Dean & Tommy Johnson inspired Everton defeated City 3-0 in the 1933 Cup final. The final was notable for other reasons – the players wore numbers for the first time (Everton were 1-11, City were 12-22), City wore red and white for the first time in a final.  
  1934  
  Eric Brook scored a wonder goal before 84,569 (to this day the largest in the provinces, and the highest for any club fixture) at Maine Road in the 6th round victory over Stoke. 2 weeks earlier the Hillsborough record crowd of 72,841 had watched City and Wednesday. A great deal of crushing and at least one death – the body was taken past Frank Swift and the others as they made their way through the tunnel – raised a few concerns over safety. Though it would be a further 60 years before another Hillsborough disaster caused a major rethink.  
  In April City defeated Portsmouth 2-1 to lift the F.A. Cup. Fred Tilson scored both City’s goals. At the final whistle the 20 year old goalkeeper Frank Swift fainted.  
  1935  
  The Blues finished fourth with Manager Wilf Wild turning City into one of the strongest clubs of the period. A Maine Road crowd of 79,491 watched the crunch match with eventual champions Arsenal on 23/2/35. It ended 1-1.  
  City’s great captain Sam Cowan was transferred to Bradford City in October for £2,000. He remains the only man to appear in 3 City F.A. Cup finals (1926, 1933, and 1934).  
  1936  
  Arguably the greatest Irish player of all time Peter Doherty arrived at Maine Road for £10,000. He made his debut in a 3-1 defeat by Preston, although he admitted it wasn’t his best performance by a long way. Preston’s wily Bill Shankly managed to win almost every battle, nevertheless Doherty was to prove one of City’s greatest acquisitions.  
  1937  
  With 30 goals from Doherty, City win their first League Championship. One of the best results of the 1936-7 season was the 2-0 victory over perennial challengers Arsenal on 10/4/37. A crowd of 76,000 – some 13,000 more than the Manchester derby – enjoyed goals from Toseland and Doherty.  
  In August, a Manchester Liners ship was named ‘Manchester City’ in honour of City’s success.  
  1938  
  Dear old unpredictable City were relegated a mere 12 months after winning the title. They also reached the 6th round of the F.A. Cup.  
  1939  
  The Blues ended the last season before WWII in 5th place.  
  1940  
  Many players joined the forces, while others performed other important wartime roles. Jackie Bray and Peter Doherty became PT instructors for a period, while Frank Swift became a special constable. Apparently he became so confused directing traffic at one point that he felt it was better to walk away and leave the vehicles to sort themselves out.  
  1941  
  Guest players were commonplace as regional leagues were set up. United’s Harry McShane, the father of actor Ian McShane, guested in 23 games during 1940-41 – he even scored against United in 1 match.  
  1942  
  The wartime regional leagues became extremely complicated with clubs being allowed to pick how many games they wanted to play post-Christmas, so long as they featured in 18 or more. City only managed 17 in the post-Christmas league as a result of Blackpool withdrawing from a couple of fixtures. As a result the Blues were not placed despite gathering 19 points from 17 fixtures.  
  1943  
  In July, former Blue Mick Hamill died in tragic and mysterious circumstances. His body was found in a river.  
  In October Maine Road hosted a thrilling 8-0 international victory by England over Scotland. Joe Mercer claimed it was the greatest game he had played in. Frank Swift was the England ‘keeper.  
  1944  
  On New Year’s Day City were defeated 7-1 by Bury at Maine Road. Jimmy Heale scored for the Blues.  
  1945  
  City’s worst run of the war period saw the Blues finish 47th out of 60 clubs in the post-Christmas North Regional League.  
  1946  
  The F.A. Cup was re-instated for the 1945-6 season. Games were played on a 2-legged basis. After defeating Barrow City beat Bradford Park Avenue 3-1 in the 4th round first leg, then lost 8-2 at Maine Road in the return – City’s record home defeat.  
  1947  
  George Smith scored all City’s goals in the 5-1 victory over Newport on 14th June (the latest finish to a season). The Blues won the Second Division title by 4 points.  
  1948  
  A crowd of 71,960 watched City draw 1-1 with United ‘away’ at Maine Road on 7th April. The Reds were using Maine Road following war damage to Old Trafford. A crowd of 78,000 had watched City’s home derby 6 months earlier.  
  City’s average attendance was 40,187.  
  1949  
  Frank Swift retired at the end of the 1948-9 season. Unfortunately his replacement, Alec Thurlow, was taken seriously ill with tuberculosis (he died in 1956 at the age of 34). Eventually, Swift agreed to fill in until the Blues found a suitable replacement.  
  In November former German Prisoner of War Bernhard Trautmann made his debut despite protests from some supporters.  
  1950/  
  City were relegated in 21st place. Former player Les McDowall became manager in June. One of his first signings Roy Paul made his debut on 19th August in the 4-2 victory at Preston.  
  1951  
  The Blues achieved promotion in second place. Bert Trautmann was the side’s only ever present. He was also becoming something of a hero to the City faithful.  
  1952  
  McDowall’s City lacked consistency. They finished 15th in 1951-2, and started the following season with only 1 victory in the first 16 games.  
  1953  
  City ended the season in 20th place, missing relegation by a point. Trautmann was the hero once again.  
  In October City beat Hearts 6-3 in the first floodlit match at Maine Road. The estimated cost of using the lights per game was a mere £3.  
  1954  
  A slightly improved 17th place brought a little encouragement for the fans, but it had been another difficult season. 17 year old forward Joe Hayes had encouraged some supporters, while McDowall’s tactical brain started to see possibilities with a new style of play. It was later dubbed the Revie plan, but basically revolved around a deep lying centre forward. Revie himself hated it at first.  
  1955  
  The Revie Plan helped the Blues finish 7th and reach the Cup Final. Newcastle defeated them 3-1. Don Revie was the Football Writers’ player of the year.  
  1956  
  4th in Division One was followed with a second consecutive trip to Wembley. This time City defeated Birmingham City 3-1 with goals from Joe Hayes, Jack Dyson, and Bobby Johnstone. The Football Writers’ player of the year Bert Trautmann broke his neck in a collision some 14 minutes from the end of the match. He played on, not realising the seriousness of the situation.  
  1957  
  Newcastle defeated City 5-4 in a topsy-turvy 3rd round Cup replay at Maine Rd. The Blues led 3-0 within 30 minutes, but in the 2nd half Newcastle fought back and levelled with only 5 minutes left. In extra time City made it 4-3, but Len White scored twice for the Geordies.  
  1958  
  In February Frank Swift died in the Munich Air Disaster. He followed United into Europe as a reporter for the News of the World.  
  1959  
  Bobby Johnstone moved to Hibernian after playing 138 games for the Blues. He netted in both mid-50s Cup finals. A 3-1 victory over Leicester on 29/4/59 preserved City’s Division One status and sent Joe Mercer’s Aston Villa into Division Two.  
  1960  
  Denis Law marked his debut with a goal in a 4-3 defeat at Leeds on 19/3/60. A month later Colin Barlow scored a late winner against Preston to save the Blues from relegation.  
  1961  
  Denis Law scored 6 in an abandoned F.A. Cup tie with Luton. He also scored in the replay, but City lost 2-1.  
  1962  
  The opening day of the 1962-3 season brought a 8-1 thrashing at Wolves. Even City’s goal was scored by a Wolves player! The 1962-3 season was destined to be one of struggle.  
  1963  
  A 1-1 draw in a heated and highly controversial Manchester derby helped relegate the Blues. New Red Denis Law scored a debatable penalty while in the tunnel at half time Pat Crerand hit City winger David Wagstaffe: “I clouted him one on the chin as the teams trooped into the tunnel…. I’d become riled with Wagstaffe and my Celtic temper boiled up.”  
  1964  
  Harry Dowd became City’s first choice ‘keeper for much of 1963-4, however by the start of 1964-5 he and Alan Ogley took it in turns to fill Trautmann’s boots. The legendary German ‘keeper retired at the end of 1963-4. His testimonial was watched by over 48,000, with thousands more locked out.  
  1965  
  After a mediocre season (City finished 11th in Division Two), Joe Mercer arrived as the club’s new manager. He quickly appointed a dynamic coach called Malcolm Allison, and the two tried to revive an ailing club.  
  1966  
  Joe Mercer popped open the champagne to celebrate City’s Second Division championship. A Colin Bell goal at Rotherham had brought promotion.  
  1967  
  A season of consolidation ended with City in 15th place. They had also reached the 6th round of the F.A. Cup, losing 1-0 to a powerful Leeds side.  
  On 9th October Francis Lee signed from Bolton. Mercer told him he was to be the final piece in City’s jigsaw.  
  1968  
  Mercer & Allison’s team of entertainers won the League Championship in style. Neil Young was top scorer on 19 from 40 games, while ‘final piece’ Francis Lee had netted 16 from 31 matches. Allison said City were so good they’d be the first team to play on Mars.  
  1969  
  Neil Young nets the only goal against Leicester at Wembley to bring the F.A. Cup back to Maine Road for the first time since 1956. Tony Book is voted joint Football Writers’ player of the year with Dave Mackay.  
  1970  
  City become the first English side to win a domestic and European trophy in the same season. The League Cup and European Cup Winners’ Cup proved City’s position as one of football’s greatest clubs.  
  1971  
  A vicious boardroom battle threatened to split the club. Mercer and Allison ended up on opposite sides and the disruption ended City’s trophy winning days, although the Blues did reach the semi-final of the ECWC, losing to Chelsea.  
  1972  
  Entertainer Rodney Marsh was signed for a record £200,000 in March. The side was disrupted to accommodate the player and the Blues ended the season 4th – one point behind champions Derby. The boardroom battles continued, although Altrincham businessman Peter Swales was trying to bring the factions together. General Manager Joe Mercer moved to Coventry in the summer feeling he had no real position at the club.  
  1973  
  In March Manager Malcolm Allison left claiming he could no longer motivate the players. The Board chose former player John Hart as his successor.  
  On Friday 5th October ‘peacemaker’ Peter Swales became Chairman. In November Ron Saunders became Swales’ first managerial appointment.  
  1974  
  Wolves beat City 2-1 in the League Cup Final on 3rd March. A week later Ron Saunders made his greatest signing, bringing Dennis Tueart to Maine Road from Sunderland.  
  At Easter Peter Swales sacked Ron Saunders as City’s League position worsened. Tony Book became City’s 4th manager in 13 months.  
  In the final game of the season Denis Law, who had returned to City on a free transfer from Tommy Docherty’s United, scored his last League goal in the Manchester derby at Old Trafford. It was a fairly significant goal.  
  1975  
  Colin Bell, arguably City’s greatest player of all time, received a devastating injury in the 4th round League Cup tie with United. The Blues went on to win 4-0 but Bell would never again return to full fitness. It was a cruel blow.  
  1976  
  Dennis Tueart’s spectacular overhead kick helped City achieve a 2-1 victory over Newcastle in the 1976 League Cup final. Young PFA player of the year Peter Barnes netted the other, while Joe Royle, who had scored in every round leading up to the final, had an effort disallowed.  
  The dearest season ticket for the 1976-7 season cost £29 if purchased before 30/4/76. A similar ticket at QPR or Arsenal would have cost around £60. £8 would buy an adult season ticket for the Kippax.  
  1977  
  The Blues finish 2nd to near perennial champions Liverpool. City missed the title by a point.  
  1978  
  City’s average attendance reached 41,687. The club’s highest official average attendance at the time (this has since been eclipsed by crowds at the City Of Manchester Stadium). The blues ended 1977-8 in 4th place.  
  1979  
  Malcolm Allison returned to City as ‘coaching overlord’ to Tony Book. It wasn’t long before Allison made his mark on the squad.  
  In March Borussia Monchengladbach won 4-2 on aggregate in City’s last European tie of the century. Earlier the Blues had defeated FC Twente, Standard Liege, and AC Milan.  
  On 9th September Steve Daley became the most expensive footballer in Britain when City paid £1,450,277 to Wolves.  
  1980  
  After selling stars Gary Owen, Peter Barnes, and Asa Hartford among others, Malcolm Allison was sacked in October. Peter Swales felt the club would be relegated. He appointed another flamboyant character, John Bond.  
  1981  
  Bond’s City avoided relegation and reached the final of the 100th F.A. Cup. Tommy Hutchison netted both goals in a 1-1 draw, and in the replay Kevin Reeves scored a penalty and Steve MacKenzie netted an incredible goal, but it wasn’t enough. A Ricky Villa inspired Tottenham won 3-2.  
  1982  
  Work started on City’s ambitious £6 million redevelopment of Maine Road. The idea was to build a replica of the North Stand at the Platt Lane end, and to replace both the Kippax and Main Stand roofs with white barrel-style affairs. In the end only the Main Stand roof was replaced, and even then it wasn’t completed - the 36 private boxes planned to be suspended from the roof were never built.  
  1983  
  David Pleat jigged across Maine Road to his captain Brian Horton as his Luton side relegated City to Division Two.  
  1984  
  Billy McNeill guided a bankrupt City to 4th place in Division Two.  
  1985  
  Promotion to Division One was achieved in the last match of the season. David Phillips (2), Andy May, Paul Simpson, and Jim Melrose scored in the 5-1 thrashing of Charlton. Promotion was vital as City’s debts were reported to be £4 million with interest costing £1,000 a day.  
  Following disasters at Heysel and Bradford, City were ordered to make the 9,702 capacity Platt Lane Stand away fans only for the start of the 1985-6 season.  
  1986  
  Captain Paul Power took City to Wembley for the first Full Members’ Cup final. City lost a thrilling tie 5-4 to Chelsea. The attendance was 68,000 – 7,000 more than attended City’s first F.A. Cup final in 1904.  
  The Blues won the F.A. Youth Cup, beating Manchester United.  
  1987  
  City were relegated to Division Two, despite the arrival of Paul Stewart and Imre Varadi.  
  On 7th November Huddersfield were beaten 10-1 in City’s largest League victory at Maine Road. David White, Tony Adcock, and Paul Stewart each netted a hat-trick, but the opening goal was scored by Neil McNab. Huddersfield’s consolation was a penalty netted by former Blue Andy May – the Huddersfield fans in the near empty Platt Lane Stand did a ‘Conga’ to celebrate!  
  1988  
  In June Tottenham paid City £1.7 million for Paul Stewart.  
  1989  
  Mel Machin’s side achieved promotion in a tense 1-1 draw at Bradford. Trevor Morley was the goal scoring hero.  
  On 23rd September, City beat United 5-1 in the 111th Manchester League derby match. Two months later Peter Swales sacked Mel Machin and after Joe Royle turned the club down, he appointed Howard Kendall. Shortly afterwards Kendall sold cult-figure Ian Bishop to West Ham.  
  1990  
  In addition to signing several former Everton players, Howard Kendall purchased Niall Quinn during the 1989-90 season. It was an inspired signing.  
  Former manager Joe Mercer died in August on his 76th birthday.  
  Kendall resigned in November to return to his ‘first love’ Everton. Fans’ choice Peter Reid was appointed in his place.  
  1991  
  Reid guided City to 5th place in Division One. The final game of the 1990-91 season saw City relegate Sunderland. Quinn scored twice in the 3-2 victory.  
  1992  
  The Blues again finish 5th in Division One.  
  On 17th August City draw 1-1 with QPR in the first match of the new Premier League. This was also the first Monday Night League match shown live on Sky TV.  
  1993  
  An embarrassing performance against Tottenham in the 6th round of the F.A. Cup leads to a Maine Road pitch invasion on 7th March. The game also marked the opening of the ‘UMBRO’, later appropriately named Platt Lane, Stand.  
  A disappointing start to the 1993-4 season prompted Peter Swales, via new general manager John Maddock, to sack Peter Reid. The season was only 13 days old. Demonstrations against the Chairman followed.  
  Brian Horton was appointed following the match with Coventry on 27/8. He was the 11th and last manager of Swales’ chairmanship.  
  1994  
  In February after a long and difficult take-over Francis Lee became chairman.  
  On 30th April 1994 the terraced Kippax Stand witnessed its final match.  
  1995  
  Brian Horton was dismissed after City finished 17th in 1994-5. In the summer Alan Ball was appointed manager.  
  On 15th July Georgiou Kinkladze arrived in a £2 million 3 year deal. Francis Lee, Jimmy Frizzell, and Colin Bell had all been impressed when they went to watch him.  
  1996  
  City lose a controversial 5th round F.A. Cup tie at Old Trafford. With City 1-0 up and in total control of the match, United were awarded a highly debatable penalty. The Reds went on to win the tie.  
  Alan Ball’s City were relegated after the final game of the 1995-6 season. After several depressing performances at the start of the following season Ball was dismissed – during the game at Stoke he received abuse form both sets of fans. A managerial merry-go-round followed with Asa Hartford taking control (26/8 – 7/10); Steve Coppell formally appointed (7/10 – 8/11); Phil Neal filling in (8/11 – 29/12); before Frank Clark was appointed.  
  1997  
  Clark’s side looked encouraging at times during 1996-7, however the Blues had dropped to 22nd place in Division One by November.  
  Paul Lake’s testimonial finally took place on Sunday 5th October. City drew 2-2 with United before 21,262.  
  1998  
  Clark was dismissed and Joe Royle was appointed. Sadly his appointment came to late to save City from relegation to Division Two for the first time in their history.  
  1999  
  A thrilling, if somewhat nerve-wracking, play-off final with Gillingham resulted in City gaining promotion to Division One via a penalty shoot out. A crowd of 76,935 witnessed Nicky Weaver and Paul Dickov become cult figures.  
  2000  
  A second promotion followed as City returned to the Premiership in second place after a thrilling final match at Blackburn.  
  2001  
  Joe Royle’s Blues struggled to make an impact in the Premier League and were relegated at the end of the 2000-01 season. Kevin Keegan was appointed manager after Royle’s dismissal and quickly brought in Stuart Pearce as an experienced player and a key figure behind the scenes.  
  2002  
  Keegan’s first season in charge ended with the Blues achieving promotion as Champions of Division One.  
  2003  
  Maine Road’s last season ended with a defeat to Southampton, however there had been plenty of highlights during 2002-03, including City’s 3-1 victory in the last Maine Road derby match. The Blues also qualified for the UEFA Cup via the Fair Play League, and in August 2003 they played their first game at the City Of Manchester Stadium.  
  2004  
  The 2003-4 season ended with City’s average attendance standing at 46,830. At the time this was City’s highest official average of all time.  
  2005  
  Kevin Keegan resigned on 11th March 2005 and was replaced by former player Stuart Pearce. Initially, Pearce was appointed caretaker manager prior to City’s match at Tottenham on 19th March, but was given the job officially on the 12th May, three days before the last match of the season. Of the nine games played under Pearce that season, only the opening game against Spurs ended in defeat. Victory against Middlesbrough on the last day would have brought a UEFA Cup place but City could only manage a draw.  
  2006  
  The Blues finished fifteenth in the Premier League and reached the quarter-finals of the FA Cup. Sadly, despite a goal from Kiki Musampa West Ham win 2-1. Earlier Micah Richards had made the headlines with a 94th minute equaliser against Aston Villa in the fifth round.  
  2007  
  City were successful in their bid to host the UEFA Cup Final in 2008. Stuart Pearce left his position of manager, with Sven-Goran Eriksson appointed as his replacement. On 15th December the Blues established a 'top flight' record of nine straight home League wins at the start of the season  
  2008  
  City won the FA Youth Cup with a two legged victory over Chelsea, much to the delight of Academy boss Jim Cassell. Sven-Goran Eriksson took City to ninth in the Premier League and qualification for the UEFA Cup (via the fair play league) but was replaced in the summer by Mark Hughes.  
  In an enthralling transfer deadline day City smashed the British transfer record when they signed Brazilian star Robinho. News of a takeover of the Club by the Abu Dhabi United group filtered through at the same time.  
  2009  
  Mark Hughes’ City reached the quarter finals of the UEFA Cup – the best European performance by any City manager in his first season with the Club. Shortly after the season ended the Blues announced a new sponsorship deal with the airline Etihad and a new kit deal with Umbro, re-igniting a relationship that commenced prior to the 1934 FA Cup final.  
  In December, however, Hughes was sacked after a club record seven successive draws saw the Blues drop down the table. The Welshman is replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini, former manager of Inter Milan.  
  2010  
  City reach the semi-finals of the Carling Cup, incredibly their first major semi-final since 1981, only to lose to United on aggregate. A brace from Carlos Tevez saw City the first leg 2-1, but lost the return 3-1 at Old Trafford. The club narrowly miss out on qualification for the Champion's League, ending the season in 5th place.  
  A busy summer in the transfer market sees the arrival of Mario Balotelli, Jérôme Boateng, David Silva, Yaya Toure, James Milner and Aleksandar Kolarov for a combined fee £118m.  
  2011  
  City win the F.A. Cup for the first time since 1969, thanks to a Yaya Toure winner against Stoke at Wembley (Toure also scored the winner aginst United in the semi final at the same ground). In February Neil Young, scorer of the winning goal in 1969, passed away months after being diagnosed with terminal cancer.  
  The club also qualified for the UEFA Champions League, finishing the season in 3rd place after a last day 2-0 win away at Bolton.  
  August saw the arrival of Sergio Aguero for a club record £38m, after the Argentinian striker completed a switch from Atletico Madrid.  
  2012  
  A dramatic finale to the season saw City clinch the league title for the first time in 44 years in the closing minutes of the final game. Needing a win against lowly QPR, City found themselves trailing 2-1 in the 90th minute. United, meanwhile, had just beaten Sunderland 1-0 and were already celebrating when Edin Dzeko and then, memorably, Sergio Aguero scored in injury time to clinch the title for City and spark wild celebrations at The Etihad.  
  2013  
  A disappointing season saw City relinquish their league title with a whimper, despite finishing as runners-up for only the fourth time in our history. Failure to progress from the Champions League group for a second successive season saw pressure grow on manager Roberto Mancini, and defeat in the F.A. Cup Final to relegated Wigan Athletic effectively sealed his fate. The Italian was replaced as manager by Manuel Pellegrini, formerly of Malaga.  
  All history and statistical material has been produced based on the research and writing of Manchester football historian Gary James (www.facebook.com/GaryJames4). It is maintained by Ric Turner & Gary James. All text remains the copyright of the original contributors.  
  Manchester's skyscraper boom: New tower plan among Europe's tallest  
  A city's skyline looks set to continue expanding upwards with a bid to build the tallest residential building in Western Europe.  
  Developer Salboy will submit plans for a new Manchester skyscraper, the latest in a cluster of high-rise towers built in the last ten years.  
  If approved the 241m (790ft) high Viadux 2 scheme would take four years to build.  
  Salboy's Simon Ismail said it was going to be "the landmark of Manchester".  
  Designed to be built on a set of listed Victorian archways which had formed part of Manchester Central Station, Viadux 2 would surpass the Peninsula building in London's Canary Wharf by eight meters.  
  It would also dwarf its closest Manchester rival, the south tower at Deansgate Square, which is 201m (659ft) high.  
  "We purposefully wanted to go for the tallest residential building in Europe... it's a flagship building," Salboy's managing director Mr Ismail said.  
  The tower will have 800 homes in it.  
  Housing is in great demand in Manchester, and Mr Ismail said much of that was driven by "postgrads staying on, the largest student population in Europe, and a cost of living that's half of that in London".  
  Mr Ismail said as long as there was "massive demand", the firm would continue building.  
  Salboy, which says it has already provided about 4,000 homes in Manchester, is also working on St Michaels Tower with the former Manchester United footballer Gary Neville.  
  Mr Ismail said he has "no idea" how long the city's skyscraper boom will continue, but said he never believed it when people had previously claimed "the bubble was going to burst"  
  "When you look what Manchester's got behind it, it's got too much backing it up, industrious people and a history of doing things right," he added.  
  Developer Renaker has already built a cluster of skyscrapers at Great Jackson Street on the southern edge of the city centre.  
  It has also put up towers at Colliers Yard in Salford and started a scheme to build four skyscrapers at Trinity Islands next to the River Irwell.  
  The company has received mrore than £500m in loans from the Greater Manchester Housing Investment Fund.  
  How has public money fuelled Manchester skyscraper boom?  
  The £300m Greater Manchester Housing Investment Fund was launched by George Osborne when he was chancellor of the exchequer in 2014.  
  The cash is loaned to developers by the Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) and is then paid back, with more than 10,500 new homes have been supported so far.  
  The value of the loans has now reached £942.5m, and of this, Renaker has benefited from £508m to help them build 4600 homes across eight developments.  
  Eamonn Boylan, GMCA chief executive, said the success of the fund has seen the initial £300m "recycled twice".  
  He said the fund was made possible in Greater Manchester because the region's ten local authorities agreed to underwrite the loans as an "illustration of confidence and commitment to a common cause".  
  He said the authorities had a "different view of risk" and understood the local market place, meaning loans were given to firms that might otherwise have been unable to get funding.  
  Manchester's evolving skyline has also caught the attention of local photographers, like 47 year old Andy Mallins.  
  He has sold his pictures of "Manc-hattan" to Mancunian expats who live across the world, and said the city's transformation from the "derelict 1980s" has been "amazing".  
  "I like how you have the old architecture, the Manchester Central Exhibition Centre, Central Library, and others sites," he said.  
  "The mix of old and new looks amazing at night when it's all lit up.  
  "It makes for a great landscape really.  
  "I don't think there are any other cities like it."  
  Why not follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk  
  What Manchester City XI vs Arsenal could be as John Stones joins four other doubtful stars  
  Manchester City could miss as many as five starting stars for their Premier League title clash with Arsenal after latest problem  
  Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox  
  SubscribePlease enter a valid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.More Newsletters  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Sign up to the free Arsenal newsletter so you don't miss the latest Gunners news, straight to your inbox  
  Invalid emailSomething went wrong, please try again later.  
  We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you’ve consented to and improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and third parties based on our knowledge of you. More info  
  Jack Grealish returned to the bench against Newcastle United for the FA Cup win. However, he too did not join up with his country as England took on Brazil and Belgium.  
  In both friendlies for the Three Lions, things went wrong for City. First against Brazil, Kyle Walker came off in the opening 20 minutes of action and was replaced by Ezri Konsa.  
  Meanwhile, in the 2-2 draw with Belgium, John Stones was substituted after 10 minutes for Joe Gomez. Walker returned to City ahead of the second game, while there remains little information on whether Stones will be fit for the weekend - though it would seem unlikely with a muscle issue.  
  Both Stones and Walker started City’s 1-1 draw with Liverpool as Guardiola has leaned on the pair in his biggest games. The duo would be hugely missed and it has not been helped by Manuel Akanji pulling out of the Switzerland squad after suffering a knock with Belgium.  
  If all three are out, it makes selecting the back four something of a challenge. Akanji would be the obvious choice to replace Walker, as would Stones to some degree. However, Rico Lewis might now instead be the pick unless Guardiola decides to move to a back three with Ruben Dias, Nathan Ake and Josko Gvardiol.  
  They could also be playing in front of Stefan Ortega instead of starter Ederson. The Brazilian was injured in the clash with Liverpool, missing out on the international call-up with significant fears he wouldn't be ready for Arsenal with it still touch and go.  
  The forward options have remained unscathed as has Rodri, whose record when he starts for City is quite incredible - 61 games unbeaten. Phil Foden struggled for England in Bukayo Saka's right wing position against Brazil, but will be expected to start as will Bernardo Silva. Like Dias, he returned early from duty with Portugal simply to rest rather than due to an injury.  
  Potential Man City XI vs Arsenal: Ortega; Lewis, Dias, Ake, Gvardiol; Rodri, Kovacic, Silva, Foden; Haaland, Alvarez.  
  football.london Arsenal WhatsApp channel  
  Want to keep up to date with the breaking and important Arsenal stories whilst on the move? Well now you can!  
  Click this link to follow the football.london Arsenal WhatsApp channel, where you'll be kept up to date on the latest Gunners news wherever you are.  
  Just remember to turn on the notifications once you've followed, and you won't miss a beat!  
  Story Saved  
  You can find this story in My Bookmarks.Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.  
  Gundogan set to leave Manchester City for Barcelona on free transfer  
  Ilkay Gundogan, the current captain of Manchester City, is poised to leave the club and join Barcelona on a free transfer as his contract reaches its conclusion at the end of this month. While Manchester City offered Gundogan a new contract, reports suggest that he has negotiated a more financially rewarding three-year deal with the Spanish champions  
  Declan Rice  
  Declan Rice: Man City in advanced talks for West Ham captain after Arsenal bids rejected  
  Treble-winners Man City in advanced talks to sign Declan Rice ahead of Arsenal; England international viewed as replacement for Ilkay Gundogan, who is on verge of joining Barcelona; Arsenal preparing third bid for Rice after opening two bids were rejected  
  rodri  
  @mancity’s final hero Rodri is the 2022/23 #UCL Player of the Season  
  Goal  
  Manchester City's First Ever Champions League Final Goal  
  Champion  
  Champions League Final: Rodri scores as Pep Guardiola and Co win 1-0 to claim their first UCL title and treble  
  Final  
  İstanbul  
  Manchester City  
  Manchester City Football Club are an English professional football club based in Manchester that competes in the Premier League, the top flight of English football. Founded in 1880 as St. Mark's (West Gorton), they became Ardwick Association Football Club in 1887 and Manchester City in 1894. The club's home ground is the Etihad Stadium in east Manchester, to which they moved in 2003, having played at Maine Road since 1923. Manchester City adopted their sky blue home shirts in 1894, in the first season with the current name. Over the course of its history, the club has won nine league titles, seven FA Cups, eight League Cups, six FA Community Shields, and one European Cup Winners' Cup. The club joined the Football League in 1892, and won their first major honour, the FA Cup, in 1904. Manchester City had its first major period of success in the late 1960s and early 1970s, winning the league title, FA Cup, League Cup, and European Cup Winners Cup under the management of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison. After losing the 1981 FA Cup final, Manchester City went through a period of decline, culminating in relegation to the third tier of English football for the only time in their history in 1998. They since regained promotion to the top tier in 2001–02 and have remained a fixture in the Premier League since 2002–03. Manchester City received considerable financial investment both in playing staff and facilities following its takeover by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan through the Abu Dhabi United Group in August 2008. This started a new era of unprecedented success, with the club winning the FA Cup in 2011 and the Premier League in 2012, both their first since the 1960s, followed by another league title in 2014. Under the management of Pep Guardiola, Manchester City won the Premier League in 2018, becoming the only team in the competition history to attain 100 points in a single season. In 2018–19, they won four trophies, completing an unprecedented sweep of all domestic titles in England and becoming the first English men's team to win the domestic treble.This was followed by three consecutive Premier League titles in 2020–21, 2021–22, and 2022–23, the third, fourth, and fifth in the Guardiola era, as well as the club's first-ever Champions League final in 2021, which they lost to Chelsea. As of 2022, the club was ranked third in the UEFA coefficient standings, reaching its highest position.  
  Manchester City topped the Deloitte Football Money League at the end of the 2021–22 season, making it the football club with the highest revenue in the world, approximated at €731 million. In 2022, Forbes estimated the club was the sixth-most valuable in the world, worth $4.250 billion. Manchester City are owned by City Football Group Limited, a British-based holding company valued at £3.73 ($4.8) billion in November 2019.  
  Home Page  
  Today on ManUtd.com  
  It's nearly a year since Ten Hag's motivational talk to Alejandro, after the go-getting winger signed a new contract.  
  The two clubs' Foundations have jointly delivered an education programme on why tragedy chanting must stop.  
  The Debate: Hot topic | Will Kobbie Mainoo represent England at Euro 2024? Wes Brown and David May have their say...  
  ONANA’S IDOLS | Andre runs through six big-name goalkeepers he’s looked up to during his career…  
  You won’t regret spending nine minutes watching Andre Onana’s best saves in a Manchester United shirt…  
  Goal of the Day | The first time United Women played at Old Trafford, Katie Zelem made no mistake from the spot...  
  Kobbie ticked off another achievement in the Three Lions' draw with Belgium on Tuesday.  
  The inside story of how the United and England midfielder is taking seniority in this stride.  
  Recently retired Marouane delves into his story for an honest and insightful UTD Podcast episode.  
  THIS WEEK'S MOST WATCHED VIDEOS  
  THIS WEEK'S MOST WATCHED VIDEOS  
  NEW FILM OUT NOW | 'One Love: For The Love Of The Game' tells the stories behind United's independent fanzines...  
  Full 120 | The greatest Old Trafford game ever? You’ll want to watch every kick, over and over and over again…  
  MUST-WATCH | Watch Rio Ferdinand reunite with Sir Alex Ferguson and chat to Erik ten Hag, thanks to TNT Sports...  
  Access All Areas | There are so many little things you will love in this unseen footage from Sunday's rip-roaring tie...  
  All The Angles | These alternative views of Amad's goal are your excuse to relive Sunday's match-winning moment again...  
  UNITED WOMEN  
  Happy birthday, Geyse! The Brazilian has combined scoring with providing goals so far in her debut season as a Red...  
  Sam, Helen and Maysie are back at Carrington to speak to Manchester United Women midfielder Emma Watson. The Scot joined United from Rangers in the summer of 2023 at the young age of 17 but unfortunately suffered an ACL injury while on international duty, shortly after signing. Emma opens up about coping with this difficult stage in her career and what her future ambitions are - she's set her sights high! Emma’s career is still in its infancy, but that hasn’t stopped her tasting success. She’s a Scotland international, has scored in the Champions League and won the 2021/22 Scottish Women's Premier League title. If that wasn’t enough, Emma was named PFA Scotland Women's Young Player of the Year in 2023. If you'd like to write to the only official Manchester United Podcast then e-mail utdpodcast@manutd.co.uk. To buy tickets for United Women's remaining home games this season, head to tickets.manutd.com.  
  Reds midfielder Emma Watson talks to UTD Podcast about recovering from an ACL injury.  
  Have you got your ticket to the Reds' final-day showdown with the Blues at Old Trafford?  
  Girlguiding ambassador Katie Zelem welcomes two young members of the organisation to Carrington...  
  FANS' STORIES  
  Young United fan Johnny Merrick reports from MUYSC's joyful (and competitive!) five-a-side tournament.  
  Legendary football artist (and Spurs fan) Paul Trevillion explains how a United icon inspired Roy of the Rovers.  
  NEW EPISODE | On World Theatre Day, join the award-winning cast of Hamilton on their tour of Old Trafford...  
  Fans from our Leicestershire supporters' club are taking on an immense challenge for our final home game.  
  Our new One Love film, 'For the Love of the Game', highlights why the club's fanzine culture is so vital.  
  For The Love of the Game clip | Barney Chilton tells the story of his courageous mum, who pushed him to create Red News…  
  THE ACADEMY  
  Omari and Willy have both made their Premier League bows for the Reds this season.  
  More than 150 guests gathered at Old Trafford at a special event to mark the recent International Women's Day.  
  Leah Galton and her partner Sheridan Douglas discuss the women's football summit at Old Trafford...  
